REFINITIV STREETEVENTS
EDITED TRANSCRIPT
ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
EVENT DATE/TIME: MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM GMT
OVERVIEW:
Co. reported 2Q21 revenue of $1.66b and adjusted diluted EPS of $1.54. Expects
3Q21 revenue to be $1.7b, plus or minus $70m and adjusted EPS to be $1.61, plus
or minus $0.11.
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Michael C. Lucarelli Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior Director of IR
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
Vincent T. Roche Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
Ambrish Srivastava BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD of Semiconductor Research & Senior Research Analyst
Blayne Peter Curtis Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst
John William Pitzer Crédit Suisse AG, Research Division - MD, Global Technology Strategist and Global Technology Sector Head
Ross Clark Seymore Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division - MD
Stacy Aaron Rasgon Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division - Senior Analyst
Tore Egil Svanberg Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division - MD
Toshiya Hari Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD
Vivek Arya BofA Securities, Research Division - Director
William Stein Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division - MD
PRESENTATION
Operator
Good morning and welcome to the Analog Devices Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2021 Earnings Conference Call, which is being audio webcast via
telephone and over the web. I'd now like to introduce your host for today's call, Mr. Michael Lucarelli, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Sir, the
floor is yours.
Michael C. Lucarelli - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior Director of IR
Thank you, Cheryl, and good morning, everybody. Thanks for joining our second quarter fiscal 2021 call. With me on the call today are ADI's CEO,
Vincent Roche; and ADI's CFO, Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah. For anyone who missed the release, you can find it and relating financial schedules at
investor.analog.com.
Now on to the disclosures. The information we're about to discuss includes forward-looking statements, which are subject to certain risks and
uncertainties as further described in our earnings release and our most recent 10-Q and other periodic reports and materials filed with the SEC.
Actual results could differ materially from the forward-looking information as these statements reflect our expectations only as of the date of this
call. We undertake no obligation to update these statements, except as required by law.
Our comments today will also include non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude special items. When comparing our results to our historical
performance, special items are also excluded from prior periods. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP
measures and additional information about our non-GAAP measures are included in today's earnings release. And with that, I'll turn it over to ADI's
CEO, Vincent Roche. Vince?
2
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
Vincent T. Roche - Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Thank you, Mike, and good morning to you all. So I'm very pleased to share with you that we delivered record revenue and earnings in the second
quarter, exceeding the high end of our outlook. This strength was driven by our disciplined operational execution and our ability to capture the
value presented as our solutions become more vital in the modern digital economy.
The supply and demand dynamics in our industry have been well publicized. Broadly speaking, the economic recovery has materialized faster and
stronger than initially anticipated, placing unprecedented stress on supply chains globally.
Late last year, ADI moved with speed and agility, proactively making capital investments to add capacity, positioning us to navigate this disruption
and better serve our customers. That said, we, like many others in the industry, will face a supply-constrained environment through the balance
of 2021. Despite this backdrop, we're positioned for a strong second half as our continued capital investments are aligned with robust demand.
Moving to a summary of our results. Revenue was $1.66 billion, increasing 26% year-over-year. The strength was broad-based, highlighted by
record quarters for our industrial and automotive markets. Gross margin expanded to nearly 71% and operating margin to approximately 42%.
Adjusted EPS of $1.54 increased 43% year-over-year.
Over the trailing 12 months, we generated $2.2 billion of free cash flow. This equates to a record 36% free cash flow margin, maintaining our position
in the top 10% of the S&P 500. So overall, I'm very proud how the ADI team executed this quarter to deliver these impressive results.
At ADI, innovation is the root of how we generate value. And to maintain our virtuous cycle of innovation-driven success, we invest more than $1
billion in R&D annually. This commitment, coupled with the diversity of our business across customers, products and applications, positions us to
deliver long-term profitable growth.
Now let me share a few customer highlights with you. ADI's solutions are embedded across the electrification ecosystem, from developing and
managing the vehicle battery to the distribution and storage across the digital grid. With the rapid shift to EVs, we're seeing new and increasing
investments in battery manufacturing capacity.
This quarter, we secured a design win with the supplier of one of the world's top battery producers. Our innovative solution reduces system costs
by half by integrating all measurement, control and diagnostics functions. And our portfolio of wired and wireless BMS provides unmatched
accuracy to deliver market-leading vehicle range as we grow and diversify our BMS business. This quarter, we added Volvo as well as 3 additional
large auto manufacturers, including a prominent luxury brand in Europe and 2 leading brands in Asia.
Moving on to energy infrastructure. Here, energy storage systems are required to make renewable energy a reality and to build the charging
infrastructure to support EV proliferation. Our precision signal chain, power management and BMS portfolios deliver the level of accuracy necessary
to ensure consistent supply across the digital grid. We have design wins at more than 80% of the top customers from traditional energy and
industrial companies to new entrants.
Another area of increasing importance for ADI is connectivity, which, of course, is becoming more pervasive across demographics and industries,
presenting new opportunities for us. For example, in our communications business, we announced a complete radio platform for the 5G O-RAN
ecosystem. This radio platform builds on our market-leading integrated transceiver position by expanding into the digital front end. Our full system
solution enables significant size and performance improvements while reducing customers' design cycles.
O-RAN represents a new vector of growth in the communications market by enabling new entrants and applications such as private networks that
support connected factories. In addition to partnerships with Intel and Marvell, we are working with key carriers and system integrators to enable
this ecosystem.
In our space business, our beam-forming solution will be used in Telesat's Lightspeed LEO satellite constellation scheduled to launch in late 2023.
This win speaks to the breadth and depth, our RF portfolio and the main expertise at ADI, which is supporting the adoption broadly of LEO
communication satellites.
3
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
Additionally, we continue to have strong design momentum across our diversified industrial market, the largest, stickiest and most profitable
business at ADI. Over the years, we've established a heritage of providing the most precise and efficient solutions required by our factory automation
customers. I believe we're at a tipping point in Industry 4.0 as customers are looking to add sensing, edge processing and connectivity to make
supply chains more robust, more efficient and flexible.
We recently won an ultra-high frequency wireless solution at a key automation company. Our solution is being used in advanced robotic systems
to reduce downtime and costs. On the wired side, customers are beginning to upgrade to deterministic Ethernet to ensure machines are constantly
connected and monitored. This quarter, we secured numerous design wins for our robust Ethernet solution, including 2 of the largest European
industrial machine manufacturers.
We recently hosted a deep dive on our instrumentation and test business. This is truly a performance-driven market that requires ADI's most
advanced technology and solutions, making it a great fit for our high-performance precision signal chain, power and RF portfolios. Our broad
diverse instrumentation business, comprised of automated test equipment, electronic test and measurement and scientific instruments, is aligned
with all secular growth trends across our industry. The increasing complexity of these applications is driving the need for solutions with more
advanced technology capabilities. As a result, we expect our SAM to increase by over 20% in the next 5 years.
Now these examples represent only a fraction of the incredible work across ADI. Our team is partnering with our customers every day to develop
increasingly innovative technologies that not only create successful business outcomes but also enrich people's lives and leave a greater impact
on our world. To that end, I wanted to share an exciting update on how we're leveraging innovation to advance our mission of Engineering Good.
In April, we launched an innovation accelerator with the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution. As part of this program, we'll be combining ADI's
engineers and technologies with WHOI's science and technology platforms to continuously monitor critical oceanographic conditions. This effort
supports our overall climate agenda, which includes our commitments to achieving carbon neutrality by 2030 and net zero emissions by 2050. We
also published our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report last week, which provides additional information on how our technologies will continue
to play a major role in improving our standard of living while protecting our planetary health.
So in closing, the last year has underscored how semiconductors, as the bedrock of the modern digital economy and information age, are increasingly
important to accelerating digitalization across all industries. We're encouraged by our results this quarter, and the momentum in our pipeline sets
the stage for continued profitable growth in the years ahead. So with that, I'll hand you over to Prashanth, who'll take you through the financial
details.
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
Thank you, Vince. Good morning, and let me add my welcome to our second quarter earnings call. My comments today, with the exception of
revenue and non-op expenses, will be on an adjusted basis, which excludes special items outlined in today's press release.
ADI delivered a record second quarter as revenue, operating margin and EPS finished above the high end of our outlook. As I mentioned last
quarter, upside to our second quarter outlook would be predicated on our ability to increase production. And thanks to early strategic investments
in capacity as well as strong execution by our manufacturing operations team, we did just that.
Now let's look at performance by end market. Industrial represented 59% of revenue and increased 14% sequentially and 36% year-over-year. This
quarter marks the second consecutive all-time high for industrial. We saw strength across all applications and geographies with all subsegments
growing double digits sequentially and year-over-year.
Communications represented 17% of revenue, fell slightly sequentially and was flat year-over-year. Wireline increased double digits year-over-year,
which balanced softness in wireless. As we outlined in the last call, 5G builds have been muted year-to-date. However, we anticipate momentum
to pick up as 5G deployments broaden globally in the second half of this year, especially in North America now that the C-band auction is complete.
4
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
Automotive represented 16% of revenue and increased 5% sequentially and 42% year-over-year. Again, we saw double-digit growth across every
major application as industry production has picked up notably from a year ago. BMS grew the fastest, more than doubling year-over-year. And
lastly, consumer decreased 12% sequentially in the seasonally weaker second quarter and represented 9% of revenue. Importantly, consumer grew
8% year-over-year, positioning us to deliver growth in fiscal '21.
Now covering the rest of the P&L. Gross margin finished just under 71%, up 90 basis points sequentially and 320 basis points year-over-year on
higher utilization and better product mix. We expect additional gross margin expansion in the second half as we realize savings from the consolidation
of our manufacturing operations.
OpEx in the quarter was $484 million, up sequentially and year-over-year. Merit increases went into effect during the second quarter, and we also
recorded higher variable comp due to the strong results. This netted operating margin of 41.7%. Non-op expenses were $44 million, down nearly
10% from the prior year, driven by lower interest expense. Our tax rate was approximately 12%. And all-in adjusted EPS of $1.54 exceeded the high
end of our outlook and marks an all-time high.
Now moving on to the balance sheet. Relative to the first quarter, inventory dollars increased $23 million to a record $641 million. This increase
was driven entirely by raw material and work in process as we ramped utilization to better meet the strong customer demand. Days of inventory
were relatively unchanged at 118. Weeks of channel inventory finished lower sequentially once again. And due to the strong sell-through at our
disties, we anticipate remaining below our 7- to 8-week target through the end of the year.
CapEx for the quarter was $59 million, bringing our year-to-date total to $127 million or more than double compared to the second half of 2020.
We expect to continue to increase capital investments and for CapEx to trend above our long-term model of 4% this year.
Turning to cash flow. We generated $2.2 billion over the trailing 12 months, which equates to a record 36% free cash flow margin. And over the
same period, we returned approximately 75% of free cash flow after debt repayments via dividends and repos. This is below our long-term target
as we paused our buyback program given the pandemic uncertainty and the pending Maxim deal.
We ended the second quarter with $1.3 billion of cash and equivalents on our balance sheet, and our net leverage is now 1.3 on a trailing 12. We're
comfortable with the leverage and do not plan to reduce debt. As such, we remain committed to return 100% of free cash flow to shareholders.
So let me finish up with our third quarter outlook. Revenue is expected to be $1.7 billion, plus or minus $70 million, up sequentially as additional
capacity comes online. This is in line with seasonality after a very strong Q2. At the midpoint, we expect each of our B2B markets to increase slightly
sequentially and consumer to be up low double digits. Based on the midpoint of guide, op margin is expected to be 42.5% plus or minus 100 bps,
and our tax rate is expected to fall between 11% and 13%. Based on these inputs, adjusted EPS is expected to be $1.61 plus or minus $0.11.
So in summary, ADI delivered a very strong quarter, highlighted by record revenue, earnings and free cash flow conversion. Importantly, bookings
and backlog remain very strong, and we're continuing to invest to increase production for the balance of the year, giving us great confidence that
our second half will be stronger than our first.
We've also made meaningful progress towards closing the Maxim acquisition. Shortly after the deal closes, we are going to hold a conference call
to provide an update regarding our capital return plans. As a reminder, once combined, we anticipate having more than $3 billion of cash and a
leverage ratio well below 1. Let me now pass it back to Mike for the Q&A.
Michael C. Lucarelli - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior Director of IR
Thanks, Prashanth. Let's go to the Q&A session. (Operator Instructions) With that, Cheryl, can we have our first question, please?
5
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Operator
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from John Pitzer from Crédit Suisse.
John William Pitzer - Crédit Suisse AG, Research Division - MD, Global Technology Strategist and Global Technology Sector Head
Congratulations on the solid result. Vince, Prashanth, 90 days ago, when you sort of guided for the April quarter, the key gating factor was your
ability to grow supply. I'm curious, as you look at the July quarter, are you still in a supply-constrained environment? And I guess more importantly,
given the internal CapEx you're spending and your work with your foundry partners, how do we think about your ability to grow supply beyond
sort of the July quarter guidance?
Vincent T. Roche - Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. So John, thanks for the question. Yes, we are constrained. We've got a very, very positive book-to-bill. But what we have forecast for the July
quarter factors in all the elements of supply across silicon supply, both internally, externally as well as all the back-end operations, assembly and
test. So we feel very confident in that number. And -- but beyond that, there is opportunity to ship more. There is more demand out there. But at
least in the July quarter, we feel very comfortable with what we have forecast.
John William Pitzer - Crédit Suisse AG, Research Division - MD, Global Technology Strategist and Global Technology Sector Head
And how do we think about supply growth beyond July? Is July a good proxy to what you should be able to do sequentially for the next couple of
quarters? Or are you getting a particularly strong uplift in July and things moderate going forward?
Vincent T. Roche - Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Well, I think -- I mean, ultimately, everything will depend on demand but we're increasing our capacity. We're getting more wafer supply in general.
And we are -- as Prashanth said in his remarks, we've been investing in capital equipment inside the company to expand our back-end operations.
So you'll see sequential improvements in ADI's output over the coming months. So as Prashanth said, in the second half of the year, given our
confidence in supply, we will have a better second half than first half.
Operator
Our next question comes from Tore Svanberg from Stifel.
Tore Egil Svanberg - Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated, Research Division - MD
Congratulations on the record results. Prashanth, you talked about disti inventory being sort of way below the 7- to 8-week target. Could you tell
us where exactly the numbers are right now? And also, do you expect to get back to 7 to 8 at some point? Or is this kind of like a new norm now
where disti in the channel is going to be sort of running below what it has historically?
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
Yes. Thanks, Tore. Inventory is very lean. We entered the quarter below 7 weeks and it decreased again in the quarter. So we would like to build
inventory back up. It's unlikely that, that's going to happen. Whatever they get their hands on sells through immediately. So until the supply gets
6
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
improved over the coming quarters, I don't think you'll see us return to normal inventory levels in the channel. But I would say that we do maintain
the view that sort of that 7 to 8 weeks is the right balance for us to have in the channel.
Operator
Our next question comes from Vivek Arya from Bank of America Securities.
Vivek Arya - BofA Securities, Research Division - Director
Vince or Prashanth, I was hoping you could quantify lead times and book-to-bill in various end markets to the extent possible. Where are lead times
stretched the most? And importantly, what are you doing to prevent double ordering? Are you implementing any firm price noncancelable programs
like your -- some of your peers are? Any perspective on how do we quantify the state of supply-demand imbalance. And how do we get some
assurance that this will be resolved, I guess, peacefully -- one word that comes to mind? I think that will be very helpful.
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Vivek. Maybe just to start with some comments on where demand is coming from. So we're experiencing significant
growth in demand and it's very broad-based, all of our markets. And when you rewind and think how we got here, our customers entered the
pandemic with pretty lean inventories, then we had this synchronized government stimulus, both fiscal and monetary. We had very strong growth
during the pandemic of consumer electronics with the high use of cloud compute connectivity.
We're coming out of the pandemic now with GDP driving industrial, and that's driving companies to rethink both where they manufacture and
upgrading the style by which they manufacture. So on the supply side, we've been planning for additional capacity, as Vince mentioned, since late
summer of 2020. And as we add capacity, our revenue forecast is increasing, and that's really what helped us deliver a better Q2 guide, up for Q3
and feel good about Q4.
So I think supply will eventually match demand, but I don't see demand really going away. So this feels -- given the secular drivers behind it, it feels
that this is going to be with us for a while. Book-to-bill for the past quarter was above 1 and it was the same for all end markets. So it's again very
broad-based. And I think it's really just a reflection of the incredible role that ADI's products play across the manufacturing ecosystem.
Vivek Arya - BofA Securities, Research Division - Director
And any pricing programs that you might have put in place like your peers?
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
Well, so I guess a few comments to make there. We are efficiently managing our orders. We're working with our customers, both large and small,
across all markets to understand the demand timing and to allocate the supply based on end demand. Remember that while we report on a POA
basis, we actually run the business on POS, so we look through distribution to understand what's happening at customers.
We've also put in a noncancelable, nonreturnable for up to 90 days to help give us better visibility into the backlog, and that helps customers sort
of manage what they can expect to get from us. So at this point, I would say the focus really has been on communication. And that's the feedback,
I think, Vince has heard from customers as well is that what's important to them is communicating what they're going to get and when they're
going to get it so they can plan their respective downstream production requirements.
7
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
Operator
And our next question comes from Ambrish Srivastava from BMO.
Ambrish Srivastava - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - MD of Semiconductor Research & Senior Research Analyst
I wanted to just unpack the gross margin comments that you made, Prashanth. You are, at the model, 70-plus percent. And when you talk about
gross margin incrementally getting better, what's the right way to think about it? And you referred to the cost savings that you'll be getting from
factory consolidation. Is there an impact from pricing?
And then kind of -- and related to that, how are you managing the input cost, which seems to be going up across the board versus pricing? And is
that also playing a factor in the gross margin? And sorry, related to that, would you be building inventory as you go through the second half?
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
Thanks, Ambrish. Do you have a few more add-ons to that? I will. So let's start with -- let's do a quick one on pricing. So net impact of pricing changes
are immaterial to gross margin. So we're managing our cost increases to net those out from a net price standpoint. The gross margin lift that you're
seeing really is the productivity that we're driving.
So I did say in the first quarter earnings call that, that would be the bottom of gross margins for the year and we would expect sequential improvement.
You're seeing that in the Q2 results that printed. You see that in the guide that we've given for Q3. That is coming from the manufacturing
consolidation of the Linear factory closure, which we have talked about and also some step-up in utilization.
So that's kind of a tactical way to think about how gross margins evolve over the balance of this year. Our model remains 70%. And I don't know,
Vince, if you want to give some guide on how we think about gross margins long term.
Vincent T. Roche - Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. Look, the root of our value creation really is innovation. We're spending over $1 billion a year. And we like to have the highest-performing
products out there that we get well paid for. And I think also the diversity of our product application and customer domains helps us protect
margins as we've seen through the pandemic here.
So 85% -- we've got 125 customers -- 125,000 customers, and 85% of our sales comes from products that individually contribute less than 0.1% of
our revenue or even less. So I mean, that's the model of the company. So there's a lot of resilience. There's a lot of optionality and resilience built
into it.
Operator
Our next question comes from Blayne Curtis from Barclays.
Blayne Peter Curtis - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - Director & Senior Research Analyst
And just kind of curious on the industrial segment. I think last quarter, you talked about 2 of 6 segments being at peak. You talked about all being
up in the April quarter. So just any color by segment there and if any more of them are at record revenue, that would be helpful.
8
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
Vincent T. Roche - Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. Well, we've seen -- this is a very, very highly diversified business. We saw broad growth across all the individual sectors. In fact, all applications
grew double digits year-over-year and sequentially. And I believe there's a lot more upside to come because we're in a multiyear growth cycle
driven by secular trends, Industry 4.0, et cetera.
I would say the -- we've seen really strong acceleration in the automation sector. And I think that's driven by such things as the need for onshoring,
more flexibility and more robust and connected supply chains. If I just pick health care, it has already been a multiyear growth market for ADI. And
the pandemic kind of underscored the importance of information technology in managing our health care systems. So we've seen an acceleration
in our digital health care business as we begin to migrate the hospital environment to the clinic and the home with point-of-care solutions or health
care anywhere mentality.
And as I mentioned in the prepared remarks as well, the energy sector, with the move to renewables and this charging infrastructure that's being
laid in to support these electric vehicles, those are some of the areas that we're seeing strongest growth within the industrial area. But I think
automation underpins it. Also, I would say, I've been very pleased with the results that we're getting and the very broad bench scientific and test
equipment, analytics equipment and so on. So it's been very, very broad.
Michael C. Lucarelli - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior Director of IR
And Blayne, just to touch on your last point about the record applications. You're right. I think last quarter, we said 2 or 3 had records. We increased
that. I think 4 of our 6 applications are a record. So I think I'll echo what Vince said is that we're early stages of this cycle. And yes, at some point,
we expect all of our applications to be at record probably in the next year or so.
Operator
Our next question comes from Toshiya Hari from Goldman Sachs.
Toshiya Hari - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Research Division - MD
Congrats on the strong results. Vince, I had a multipart question on your BMS business. You guys talked about revenue more than doubling in the
quarter. I was hoping you could speak to kind of the breadth of your customer profile there in the quarter on a year-over-year basis.
And I guess, more importantly, based on some of the comments that you've made on past calls and also this call as it relates to your design win
pipeline, should we expect some of these wireless BMS projects to ramp in fiscal '22 or is it more fiscal '23 and beyond? And lastly, as it pertains to
the combination of -- with Maxim, how should we think about how your position in BMS evolves over time post the combination?
Vincent T. Roche - Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. Thanks, Toshi. Well, first off, we're the market share leader in the electric vehicle battery management systems. And as you know, we have
really 2 portfolios. We have the existing -- we like to call it the wired portfolio, the more traditional way of moving data from the battery system.
And we've introduced a wireless version, a robust cognitive radio-based wireless system. So I think the next 12 months will be driven by the
traditional wired battery technology.
And after that, in late '22 into 2023, we'll begin to see the upsurge of the wireless battery technology that will complement the wired. So what I
believe will happen is today, what have we got, 2 million, 3 million cars per year being produced, electric vehicles being produced. That's going to
move to, we believe, somewhere 10x at least over the next 7, 8 years. So this is a multi, multiyear cycle.
9
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
We're -- our BMS chips today are being used in over half of the top 10 selling EV cars globally, and we're gaining share in each of those areas. Today,
our best position is in North America and China. And as I mentioned in the prepared remarks, we're beginning to make real tracks in Europe as well
as Japan and Korea. So ultimately, if a manufacturer wants the most miles per charge, they're going to turn to ADI. So that's what we're working
on.
Operator
Please go ahead, Ross Seymore from Deutsche Bank.
Ross Clark Seymore - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division - MD
Just had a couple of questions on your communications business. I guess in the tactical sense, it looked like it was better than you expected in the
quarter, the April quarter. Was that specific to the wired or wireless side or was it just the supply coming on?
And then more importantly, looking forward, can you give a little bit more color on what your expectations are for the wireless side? Obviously,
we had some difficult comps with what happened with Huawei year-over-year. But how do we think about that returning to year-over-year growth
given the second half commentary that you talked about with some ramps in North America and beyond?
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
Yes, thanks. So I said in the prepared remarks that the communications business for the second quarter was really driven by very strong growth in
the wired. I think it was up double digits. Wireless remains lumpy, but we feel pretty good that comms has bottomed in the second quarter, and
we're going to see growth in the second half, I think. And I'll let Vince jump in with some of the customer conversations he's been having.
But with the completion of the C-band auction, we feel very good that you're now going to see the build-out of 5G for which we are the largest
participant certainly in the -- with the transceiver product for both the U.S. and starting to see that in Europe as well.
Vincent T. Roche - Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. So Ross, what I want to mention is that at this point in time, rest of world is 3x larger than China for ADI. I think that's very, very important to
remember. And we're certainly seeing 5G momentum pick up on a global basis. North America, we've recently -- obviously, the C-band auction is
complete, and we're beginning to see orders today that we expect will accelerate during 2022 and beyond.
Even Europe, where there's been real lethargy in upgrading their communication systems in general over the last several years, we're beginning
to see signs of life in the deployment of 5G. India is also -- India has a significant government-funded program to make 5G a reality there. We're
beginning to participate in trials.
And last but not least is O-RAN. We already have revenue as a company with Rakuten, the online shopping company in Japan. And we're very well
positioned given our ecosystem position there to unlock potential in what is a brand-new stream of revenue, particularly I think, as it gets deployed
into private networks for machines.
Ross Clark Seymore - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division - MD
Prashanth, one quick clarification. Just one quick clarification from what Prashanth said. Double digits in the wired, was that a year-over-year or a
sequential comment?
10
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
That was a year-over-year, year-over-year.
Operator
Our next question comes from Stacy Rasgon from Bernstein Research.
Stacy Aaron Rasgon - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division - Senior Analyst
I actually wanted to follow up on that comm question. So if I go back to last quarter, you kind of talked the comm trajectory down a bit and it was
a China statement. So I just want to clarify, is that -- it doesn't sound like that's changed. It does sound like the uptick you're seeing right now is
outside of China, U.S., Europe, India. I guess, is that correct?
I guess why didn't you see that uptick 90 days or expectations for that up to 90 days ago versus today? And then what are your broad thoughts on
5G rollout in China going forward from here? How does that -- how does the rest of that play out given all the dynamics that are happening there?
Vincent T. Roche - Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. So I think, first and foremost, China is opportunistic for ADI at this point. We'll sell, I think, lots of components in there, but it is more opportunistic.
Prashanth, you can talk about the specifics.
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
Yes. I think, Stacy, we have always said that we expected 5G deployments in North America to come next and be followed by Europe. When we
gave you the commentary for the -- leading into the second quarter, we were focused on the pause in China, but we have seen now that the
auctions are complete and particularly Verizon being much more public about what they are -- what they intend to do in the 5G space. As Vince
mentioned, orders are starting to come in for that. So the trajectory for communications or for wireless specifically is going to -- is going to be up
in the second half.
Operator
And our last question comes from William Stein from Truist Securities.
William Stein - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division - MD
Guys, I'd like to ask about the cost function. We have 2 potential looming problems. I think one is inflation broadly, not just materials, potentially
labor as well. And then on the OpEx side, the return to work face-to-face sort of operations suggests maybe we start spending on travel and things
like that. And I wonder if you can comment as to how we might sensitize our models to these factors.
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
Yes. So let me take the inflation piece first. So I think it was Ambrish who asked the question, and we are seeing cost increases from our supply
base, but we feel that we're -- guiding margins on a net basis are going to be neutral for that because we are, where we can, pushing that price
through. So I'm not as concerned about the inflation side.
11
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
We have been very mindful of the labor side. And I would say that the data we're seeing is that it's taking us about a week longer than normal to
fill jobs at the factory level. So our U.S. factories are facing a little bit longer time to fill jobs, but it's not anywhere as dramatic as what we're hearing
in the media in terms of filling these high-paying manufacturing jobs.
And then for return to office, that's something we spend a lot of time on. There's no doubt that there will be some return to travel. I think it's -- I
think that's going to be universal across all companies. But more specifically to how ADI is thinking about return to office, maybe I'll let Vince talk
about how we're thinking about that.
Vincent T. Roche - Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Yes. So we've instituted a 3 day per week policy to start with here at ADI for those who have been working remotely, and we'll see where things
go from there. But my sense is, on the OpEx side of things, we will probably not get back to per capita travel spend, entertainment spend and so
on and so forth.
The other thing I'll remind you, Will, is that we work relentlessly in the company on taking costs out of the business. So we work hard on cost of
goods. We work hard on making the business efficient below the cost of goods line as well. So inflation is nothing new. We'll see how it moves over
the next -- if we see an acceleration in inflation, then we'll figure what actions to take.
William Stein - Truist Securities, Inc., Research Division - MD
So we shouldn't be modeling some step-up cost function in OpEx related to travel and such activities? I know there's an increase you've already
guided to for, I think, bonuses and such, but for travel, no?
Vincent T. Roche - Analog Devices, Inc. - President, CEO & Director
Well, I think that's true. And when you look at the expenses today, our OpEx is laden with some very rich bonus payouts because the business, in
terms of growth and profitability, is doing very, very well. But we will -- over time, I expect that the growth will moderate and the bonuses will also
moderate.
Prashanth Mahendra-Rajah - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior VP of Finance & CFO
Well, maybe I can wrap by saying, we're expecting second half revenue to be strong. We've indicated that second half gross margins are going to
continue to increase, which is going to give you incredible leverage, and therefore, there's no reason you won't see a meaningful lift in op margins
as each quarter rolls out. So -- and all of that is going to translate into more cash flow, which we'll have available to deploy since we're not doing
any further debt reduction that's coming back to shareholders.
Michael C. Lucarelli - Analog Devices, Inc. - Senior Director of IR
Thanks, Will. Thanks, everyone, for joining us this morning. A copy of the transcript will be available on our website. All reconciliations will also be
there. You can also find our new CSR report that Vince outlined in his script on our Analog Investor Relations home page. And with that, thanks for
joining us and your continued support of ADI.
Operator
This concludes today's Analog Devices conference call. You may now disconnect.
12
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call
DISCLAIMER
Refinitiv reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION,
THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES REFINITIV OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
©2021, Refinitiv. All Rights Reserved. 14708287-2021-05-19T18:48:30.973
13
REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com | Contact Us
©2021 Refinitiv. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Refinitiv content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited without the prior written
consent of Refinitiv. 'Refinitiv' and the Refinitiv logo are registered trademarks of Refinitiv and its affiliated companies.
MAY 19, 2021 / 2:00PM, ADI.OQ - Q2 2021 Analog Devices Inc Earnings Call