Q1.2019 Financial Results - ASML
1
ASML reports EUR 2.2 billion sales at 41.6% gross margin in Q1
2019 view unchanged
VELDHOVEN, the Netherlands, April 17, 2019 - ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) today’s Investor Call - 2019 firstquarter results.
Peter Wennink
Thank you Skip. Good morning / good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for 
joining us for our Q1 2019 results conference call.
Before we begin the Q & A session Roger and I would like to provide an overview and some 
commentary on the first quarter, as well as provide our view of the coming quarters. Roger 
will start with a review of our Q1 financial performance with some added comments on our 
short-term outlook. I will complete the introduction with some additional comments on the 
current business environment and on our future business outlook.
Roger if you will
Roger Dassen
Thank you, Peter and welcome, everyone.
I will first highlight some of the first-quarter accomplishments and then provide our guidance 
for the second-quarter of 2019.
Although this was a modest quarter, in absolute numbers, we did report both sales and gross 
margin above our guidance. Q1 net sales came in at 2.23 billion Euros, slightly above 
guidance driven by an additional EUV shipment in the quarter. Net system sales of 1.69 
billion Euros was more weighted towards Logic at 60 percent, with the remaining 40 percent 
from Memory, the same split as previous quarter. We reported EUV system revenue of 371 
million Euros from 4 shipments.
Installed Base Management sales for the quarter came in at 540 million Euros, which was 
slightly lower than guided, due to lower upgrade business.
Gross margin for the quarter was 41.6 percent, which is slightly higher than the 40% guided, 
due to a favorable DUV mix more than compensating for the gross margin impact of one 
additional EUV system.
Overall R&D and SG&A expenses came in a little lower than guided, with R&D expenses at 
473 million Euros and SG&A expenses at 121 million Euros.
Turning to the balance sheet, 55 million Euros worth of shares were repurchased in Q1. We 
ended last quarter with cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at a level of 3.28 
billion Euros.
2
Moving to the order book, Q1 system bookings came in at 1.40 billion Euros. Logic order 
intake was 75 percent of total value with the remaining 25 percent from Memory, again 
reflecting the strong logic demand expected this year. We took 3 new EUV orders in the 
quarter.
Net income in Q1 was 355 million Euros, representing 15.9 percent of net sales and an EPS 
of 0.84 Euros, this was favorably impacted by a one-off tax benefit.
With that I would like to turn to our expectations for the second-quarter of 2019.
We expect Q2 total net sales between 2.5 and 2.6 billion Euros. Our total net sales forecast
for Q2 includes around 600 million Euros of EUV system revenue, on 6 expected shipments 
in Q2.
We expect our Q2 Installed Base Management revenue to be around 700 million Euros.
Gross margin for Q2 is expected to be between 41 - 42%, the lower margin EUV revenue will 
be compensated by higher margin non-EUV business. We continue to expect further 
improvements in gross margin in the second half driven by higher system sales, increased 
field upgrades, shipment of higher margin NXE:3400C systems, as well as contribution of 
EUV service revenue. This will provide a significant step towards our 2020 target of over 
50%.
The expected R&D expenses for Q2 are around 485 million Euros and SG&A is expected to 
come in at around 125 million Euros. Our estimated 2019 annualized effective tax rate is 
around 11 percent, because of a one-off tax benefit in 2019. We still expect our long-term 
effective tax rate to be 14 percent.
As we remain confident in our long-term growth, we will propose a 50 percent increase 
versus last year in our dividend to 2.10 Euros per share at our annual shareholder meeting 
which takes place on April 24th in Veldhoven. The dividend payment is valued at around 0.9 
billion Euros. We still expect to execute the remaining 1.3 billion Euros of the 2018/2019 
share buyback program this year with a weighting towards the back of the year.
With that I’d like to turn the call back over to Peter.
Peter Wennink
Thank you, Roger.
As Roger has highlighted, although it was a modest quarter, the results came in above our 
guidance and we expect further strengthening in the coming quarters. There continues to be 
volatility in the market due to the macroeconomic environment, hence some uncertainty 
remains in the semiconductor industry. Our memory customers are going through a period of 
rebalancing supply and demand with an expected improvement in their business conditions 
over the course of the year. Our view of 2019 remains unchanged from last quarter, we 
continue to expect overall growth in 2019, with increasing demand for our products as we 
move through the year. The fundamental end market drivers clearly remain in place as 
expanding end market applications continue to fuel the demand for high performance 
compute and high-performance memory.
Q1.2019 Financial Results - ASML
3
In memory, the NAND market continues to digest the high level of capacity additions over the 
past few years. This digestion started last year and will likely extend through most of this 
year. The DRAM market is also seeing softening in the near-term demand as they work 
through an inventory correction. Based on our customers' view, we continue to expect 
memory for our litho systems down around 20% relative to last year. Bear in mind, there is a 
portion of this memory demand that supports new technology as well as new domestic 
Chinese customers. This demand is clearly more strategic and is very likely to happen 
independent of near-term global bit demand. If you remove these two components from our 
estimated 2019 memory demand, you get a lithography spend for memory bit supply that is 
30% lower than the comparable spend in 2018. This reduction in spend is significant and will 
help in correcting the supply demand balance. On top of this, we have seen a significant 
reduction in wafer output in the memory space. This quick reaction to the changes in the end 
market demand is clearly different from what we have seen in earlier cycles and will also help 
in correcting the inventory situation.
The logic segment is expected to be the growth driver in 2019, with the majority of the 
demand linked to technology transitions and production capacity for advanced nodes. We still 
expect this logic business to be up around 50%, relative to last year, driven by DUV as well 
as significant demand EUV.
Furthermore, we still expect single digit percentage growth of Installed Base revenue.
On the ASML product side let me start with an update of our EUV business.
• In EUV, customers are starting production of the most advanced logic processes on 
our NXE:3400B systems with plans to transition to higher productivity NXE:3400C 
systems in the second half of the year. The first set of qualified NXE:3400C optics are 
in our factory. These higher transmission optics will enable the higher throughput of 
170 wafers per hour. We expect these systems will deliver the next level of cost 
effective shrink in both logic and memory. We shipped 4 EUV systems in Q1 and are 
on track to ship the planned 30 systems in 2019. 
• In DUV, we continue to innovate in support of future nodes and new applications. 
Driven by a continued high level of demand for dry products, we will bring the DUV 
dry products to the high-performance NXT platform, starting with NXT:1470, planned 
for delivery mid next year. We also see increasing demand for 200mm TWINSCAN 
systems across all dry wavelengths and industry segments. For instance, in thin film 
head manufacturing, we recently received an order for a special version of the 
XT:1460K, which is a dry ArF platform, which is expected to enable the shrink 
roadmap at a leading hard disk storage manufacturer. 
• In our Applications business, our computational lithography deep-learning technology 
has been adopted at several leading-edge customers. We continue to make progress 
in e-beam technology and are on track to deliver a multi-beam system for this year for 
R&D, with plans for commercial product shipments in 2020. With the announcement 
of the acquisition of Mapper's IP assets in January, more than 100 former Mapper 
employees accepted jobs from ASML and are now working on the development 
roadmap of our e-beam and Applications products. 
4
In summary, despite uncertainty in the current environment, we continue to see market 
demand that supports another growth year, with strengthening of both sales and profitability 
quarter on quarter this year. Logic will be the primary driver of growth this year supported by 
technology transitions and production ramp of the most advanced nodes. As discussed, 
Memory includes more uncertainty, on the one hand because of the uncertainty of global bit 
demand but on the other hand due to fast adjustment of production capacity, and therefore 
presents both a risk and opportunity. Overall, our view of the business is largely unchanged 
from last quarter. We are on track to achieve our 2020 targets with significant growth 
potential beyond 2020.
With that we would be happy to take your questions.