Public
Transcript
Video interview with ASML CFO Roger Dassen 
Q3 2022 results 
October 19, 2022
Q3 2022 results 
Mr. Dassen, can you give us a summary of the third-quarter results?
Absolutely. Net sales came in at €5.8 billion which was above guidance. Included in that €5.8 billion €1.5 of 
Installed Base revenue. Why was it higher than guided? A number of reasons. First off, the installation time 
in the field is actually faster than we anticipated. That means that we get revenue faster as a result of that. So 
that was one big reason. Secondly, we already mentioned the Installed Base business. So that was more 
than we anticipated because of some field upgrades. Thirdly, in the past quarters we put a specific factory 
option on the machines and that factory option led to delayed revenue because first the factory option needed 
to demonstrate its value to the customers. 
A number of key customers has now accepted that value. As a result of, that the deferred revenue that we 
booked in previous quarters has now been released. So it is in that combination really that the revenue was 
higher than we guided. 
Also from a gross margin perspective, higher than we anticipated, 51.8 percent. Primarily driven by, I would 
say, the last two things that I just mentioned. So the deferred revenue release of the factory option and also 
the fact that we were able to pull-in some Installed Base business. Also the factory option that was a pull-in. 
Because that meant that the value is actually demonstrated earlier than we originally anticipated. So those 
are the main reasons why both the revenue and gross margin are higher than guided last quarter. 
The net income for the quarter came in at €1.7 billion. Also very noteworthy is the net bookings. Came in at a 
record €8.9 billion for this quarter. Included in there €3.8 billion for EUV, including a number of High-NA orders. 
So all in all, I would say a strong quarter both in terms of revenue and in terms of gross margin and also in 
terms of order intake. 
Q4 and Full Year 2022 outlook
What’s your guidance for the fourth quarter and for the full year?
For the fourth quarter our guidance for sales is between €6.1 and €6.6 billion. Included in there we expect 
€1.6 billion for Installed Base revenue. In terms of gross margin we expect approximately 49 percent. If you 
then translate that into the full year 2022 at the midpoint, we would get around €21.1 billion revenue for the 
full year at a gross margin approaching 50 percent.
Public
Supply chain
Can you give us an update on the current supply chain situation and your confidence in resolving 
these issues?
Yes. I think it is good in that context just to look at the facts. I think one fact is just to look at if you adjust the 
quarter revenue for the fast ship effect, if you normalize1
that, then I think you get a good proxy how the output 
capacity for ASML and its supply chain really has developed itself. If you take that perspective, so you 
normalize the revenue for the fast ship effect, then you would see that for Q1 we were at €4.9 billion in 
normalized revenue. In Q2 we were at €5.7 billion. In Q3, the quarter we just completed, at €6 billion. At the 
midpoint that we are now guiding for Q4, we would be around €6.4 billion. So there you see a gradual uptick 
of the normalized revenue. Again as a good proxy of the output capability that ASML and its supply chain 
demonstrated.
And I think that’s a good indication and good evidence of the fact that we are getting a better handle on the 
supply chain situation. The better handle means that we actually see the move rates in the supply chain go 
up and we also see the predictability of those move rates going up. We put a lot of effort into this. Working 
very closely with the supply chain and particularly with those suppliers that were struggling a little bit. But I 
think all in all, the situation is definitely progressing. I think the capacity that we now see both for ourselves 
and also the supply chain, the position is very nicely for what we’ve communicated before as the output targets 
and the shipment targets that we would have for next year. Which is more than 60 EUV tools and more that 
375 DUV tools. 
1 Normalized revenue is a non-GAAP measure. See the appendix to our investor presentation for a reconciliation to net 
sales under US GAAP”
There’s a lot of uncertainty around the supply of natural gas. Do you see any impact of that on your 
business?
We definitely looked into that for our own operations. We are a very mild consumer of natural gas. So for us 
we have established that that risk profile is very low. We also looked at our tier 1 suppliers. Our key tier 1 
suppliers and also there we have determined that either the risk is low or they are all very well prepared to 
deal with the situation and have developed alternatives. We looked beyond that point and we really looked 
into a number of sub suppliers and if there are sub suppliers that are confronted with higher risk situation 
around this. In those instances we are working very hard with them to work on the alternatives and just make 
sure that everyone is very well prepared. So clearly something we’re looking into. But I think that we are 
making really good progress on making sure that the entire supply chain is well prepared for any eventualities 
in that regard. 
Public
Market outlook
Are you seeing any change in demand from your customers? With slowing consumer demand, a 
potential recession ahead. What does it mean for demand for your products in 2023?
It’s a very valid point. It’s very clear that the world is changing very rapidly and this combination of inflation on 
the one hand and also consumer confidence taking a hit. These are serious developments and create a lot of 
uncertainty. Uncertainty that is really at a very different level I would say and the macro uncertainty is at a 
very different level than it was even a couple of months or quarters ago. So that’s clearly the case and of 
course in such a climate of uncertainty of consumers, inflation risks, recession risks clearly there. I think that 
obviously also has an impact on our customers. You see some customers actually running our tools at a 
utilization level which is below the record levels that we’ve seen before. We also see a number of our 
customers reducing the capex that they are forecasting and we also see now for the first time, since quite a 
while, that actually some customers are delaying the preferred time that they would like to get our tools. So 
we see those dynamics. 
But I have to say the lion’s share of our customers really keeps on pushing us in terms of getting the tools 
and getting them sooner rather than later. There is a few customers that are indicating a preference for some 
delay but the lion’s share of the customers are really pushing and they are raising their hands to say if there 
is a delay someplace else, then please get the tools to us even earlier. And I think that is also evidenced by 
the strength of the order book. Again, we just mentioned record order intake of €8.9 billion. That gets to an 
order book at the end of Q3 of over €38 billion. Which is a number that we’ve never seen before at ASML. In 
there, 85 percent of that order book really is for EUV and for immersion, so really caters to the more advanced 
and strategic part of semiconductor manufacturing. And I think that is what is really going on. I think clearly 
the secular trends – as we always call them – are very much intact. I mean customers really want to make 
those technology transitions. They really are building capacity also beyond 2023. And also there is still this 
element of tech sovereignty that we’ve been talking about. The fact that governments want to be more selfsufficient in their semiconductor manufacturing. So those secular trends are still very much intact and I think 
that creates a situation that we’re seeing where the lion’s share of the customers are really still pushing us to 
get the tools sooner rather than later. 
So your question on 2023. Obviously it’s a bit early to be too granular and too specific but we mentioned 
before the over 60 EUV tools, the more than 375 DUV tools. I would say, even if indeed we are able to sustain 
the good momentum that we just talked about in the supply chain and provided we are not going to be 
confronted with some very unexpected developments on the demand side, that’s still a good indication for 
what we are looking at in terms of shipment. So clearly uncertainty at a very different level than what we’ve 
seen before. But I think we still have some very strong dynamics going in favor of us.
And how do you prepare for these uncertainties?
Well, the key word there is flexibility and that’s also something that we’re working on as ASML. So to make 
sure that both on the supply chain as it relates to our own manufacturing capability and also in our workforce,
Public
that we have sufficient flexibility available. Both flexibility in terms of an unanticipated sudden decline in 
demand that we are able to collectively respond to that in the right fashion. But also making sure that we are 
also, when things start to pick up again, that we are able to respond to that in a very flexible way as well. So 
that’s what we are doing. I think it’s part and parcel of the capacity expansion that we’re doing to execute that 
in a flexible way. I think in that way we do whatever it takes to be well prepared for any eventualities in that 
regard. 
Have you seen any further increases in inflationary effects and how do you recover from the 
inflationary cost with regard to your gross margin next year?
We talked about it last time. Obviously the inflationary effects are there. Both on labor cost, on freight, on 
parts. So that’s clearly going on. We also mentioned we are having good discussions with our customers on 
that front to kind of share the burden within the ecosystem. And I think generally there is a good appreciation 
of customers that they understand what we are being confronted with and there is also a good appreciation 
that there needs to be a mechanism to indeed share that burden. So I would expect to get benefit from that 
in the course of 2023 and to start seeing that compensation. 
In terms of the impact that it will have on 2023. We should get some positive impact on the gross margin from 
that element. Also for 2023, I would expect to recover from the gross margin impact from the fast shipments. 
The gross margin of this year was impacted by the fact that we had these fast shipments. That impact should 
be significantly less in 2023 from a gross margin perspective. So those I would say would be benefits. The 
flip side of that is clearly inflation might continue. So there is still quite some uncertainty around the level of 
inflation. So it’s also very hard to predict what exactly the inflation rate for next year is going to be. And also 
we should bear in mind: we continue to ramp. We continue to build capacity. Obviously that means that you 
are having cost ahead of really utilizing that capacity. That will continue to have a burden on the gross margin 
for next year. 
So if you add it all up, I think all in all, we have the gross margin approaching 50 percent in this year. That’s 
what we expect. You also know that we indicated for 2025 we articulated an expectation of a gross margin 
between 54 and 56 percent. And I think we should also next year see the gradual development from the gross 
margin of this year towards that objective of 54 to 56 percent that we articulated before. We should see that 
gradual progress actually happening.
As said there is strong demand for your products. Do think that this strong demand will continue 
beyond 2023 and can you elaborate on your expansion plans?
As I just mentioned, I think the secular trends are there. Clearly there is uncertainty in the short term but the 
secular trends are there. For all the good reasons that we just mentioned. So from that vantage point clearly 
we believe expanding our capacity is the right thing to do. We are in very close collaboration with our supply 
chain to get that done. We recently had a Supplier Day here at ASML to really talk with the suppliers about 
these expansion plans. About the progress that they are making. Also making sure that people learned from 
Public
one another. So there is a lot of positive dynamic around that theme and a lot of alignment within the supply 
chain to really get to those levels that we mentioned before. Which is 90 EUV systems and 600 DUV systems 
around the 2025 timeframe and then medium term 20 High-NA systems. 
Export controls
What is the impact of the latest export control restrictions announced by the US government? Does 
this impact your business in China?
I would say the direct impact on ASML is fairly limited. I should say of course we are still in the process of 
evaluating it. It’s a very extensive document as you know. So we are still in the process of really digesting it 
and looking at it. Our initial appreciation is that the direct implication for us is fairly limited. So why is that? 
First off, as you know we are a European company. So there is not a lot of US technology in our tools. That’s 
the first reason. Of course we will always adhere to the rule of law. So also the US export laws as they pertain 
to us, of course we will do whatever it takes to follow those. There is no doubt about it. But the fact that we 
are a European company with limited US technology in it of course creates this situation where a direct impact 
on us is fairly limited. We can continue to ship non-EUV lithography tools out of Europe into China. 
So the direct impact on us I would say is fairly limited. Of course there could be indirect effects. Those indirect 
effects could be that Chinese manufacturers to the extent that they do not get other equipment that they need 
in their fabs for instance from the United States. Of course there could be an indirect effect on the demand 
for our tools. But there I would say, it is important to recognize that we are clearly still in a situation where the 
supply is below what the demand is. So to the extent that at a certain point in time we would be in a position 
that we can no longer supply certain tools to certain customers in China, the demand outside of China is still 
such that we would get compensation for that in the current environment from other customers. 
Dividend and share buyback
To conclude, can you give us an update on your plans for the use of cash?
Yes, I would say in principle nothing changes. As you all know, the primary utilization of cash is within the 
business. To make sure that from an R&D perspective, capex perspective, the cash that is needed to pursue 
our roadmap is there. So that’s still the primary purpose. Then we’ve also said we are looking at a dividend
that we want to grow over time. The proposal for next quarter, so for Q4, we will have an interim dividend of 
€1.37. 
You also know that what is available above that, so what’s available in terms of cash over and above what 
we need for the business to pursue our roadmap and what is needed for this growing dividend, will be returned 
to shareholders by means of share buybacks. The existing share buyback program we just completed. Quite 
well ahead of time. 
Public
We will have our Capital Markets Day on November 11. There of course we are going to talk about how we 
see the 2025 and 2030 scenarios developing. How do we see demand developing, the supply situation, so 
what’s our expectation also financially for those years 2025 and 2030. We also in that Capital Markets Day 
will talk about our plans for a new share buyback program. So there we will have a concrete program available 
and ready to discuss and present to the shareholders. 
I’m very much looking forward to that. It’s going to be an interesting day November 11. Amidst the uncertainty 
that we also talked about. To talk about the medium and the longer term and the really good prospects that 
we continue to see for ASML and its business. So very much looking forward to seeing all of you there. Either 
in person or in video. We’ll see you there. 
Forward Looking Statements
This document and related discussions contain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the U.S. Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including statements with respect to expected trends, including trends in end 
markets and technology industry and business environment trends, supply chain constraints and plan to add capacity and 
capacity goals, outlook and expected financial results, including bookings and orders, expected net sales, gross margin, 
R&D costs, SG&A costs and estimated annualized effective tax rate and full year 2022 expectations for net sales and gross 
margin and expected shipments in 2023, statements with respect to fast shipments and impact on expected results, gross 
margin ambition, statements made at our 2021 Investor Day including revenue and gross margin opportunity for 2025 and 
growth opportunities beyond 2025, expected annual revenue growth rate for the period of 2020-2030, and our plan to 
revisit the expectations presented at the 2021 Investor Day, estimates of amounts of deferred revenue not yet recognized 
and timing of recognition of such deferred revenue for fast shipments, including value of fast shipments in 2022 leading to 
deferred revenue recognition, expected shipments, plans and strategies, impact of gas shortage on us and suppliers, 
customer demand trends, statements about the market and macroeconomic trends and concerns regarding inflation and 
consumer confidence, statements with respect to dividends including the Q3 dividend and share buybacks and financial 
policy including statements with respect to share buyback programs, aim to improve ESG sustainability KPI's and other 
non-historical statements. You can generally identify these statements by the use of words like "may", "will", "could", 
"should", "project", "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "plan", "estimate", "forecast", "potential", "intend", "continue", "target",
"future", "progress", "goal" and variations of these words or comparable words. These statements are not historical facts, 
but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, assumptions and projections about our business and our future 
financial results and readers should not place undue reliance on them. Forward-looking statements do not guarantee future 
performance and involve a number of substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties. These risks and 
uncertainties include, without limitation, economic conditions, product demand and semiconductor equipment industry 
capacity, worldwide demand and manufacturing capacity utilization for semiconductors, the impact of general economic 
conditions including the impact of the current macroeconomic uncertainty in the market, inflation and consumer confidence 
which could potentially lead to a recession, demand for our customers’ products, performance of our systems, the impact 
of the COVID-19 outbreak and measures taken to contain it on us, our suppliers, the global economy and financial markets, 
the impact of the Russian military actions in the Ukraine and measures taken in response on the global economy and 
global financial markets and other factors that may impact ASML’s financial results, including customer demand and 
ASML’s ability to obtain parts and components for its products and otherwise meet demand, the success of technology 
advances and the pace of new product development and customer acceptance of and demand for new products, 
production capacity and our ability to increase capacity to meet demand, the impact of inflation, the number and timing of 
systems ordered, shipped and recognized in revenue, and the risk of order cancellation or push out, supply chain capacity 
and constraints and logistics and constraints on our ability to produce systems to meet demand, the timing of recognition 
of deferred revenue from fast shipments and impact on our results, the impact of the gas shortage on us and our suppliers, 
trends in the semi-conductor industry, our ability to enforce patents and protect intellectual property rights and the outcome 
of intellectual property disputes and litigation, availability of raw materials, critical manufacturing equipment and qualified 
employees, trade environment, import/export and national security regulations and orders and their impact on us including 
the impact of the new US export regulations which we are continuing to assess, changes in exchange and tax rates, 
available liquidity and liquidity requirements, our ability to refinance our indebtedness, available cash and distributable 
reserves for, and other factors impacting, dividend payments and share repurchases, results of the share repurchase 
programs and other risks indicated in the risk factors included in ASML’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 
December 31, 2021 and other filings with and submissions to the US Securities and Exchange Commission. These 
forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this document. We undertake no obligation to update any 
forward-looking statements after the date of this report or to conform such statements to actual results or revised 
expectations, except as required by law. 