1
Strong DUV demand drives solid Q1 results and confirms positive outlook for 2018
Multiple EUV orders, including High-NA, demonstrate further adoption of EUV technology
VELDHOVEN, the Netherlands, April 18, 2018 - ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) today’s Investor Call - 2018 first-quarter results.
Peter Wennink
Good morning / good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us for our Q1 
2018 results conference call.
Before we begin the Q & A session Wolfgang and I would like to provide an overview and some 
commentary on the first quarter, as well as provide our view of the coming quarters. Wolfgang 
will start with a review of our Q1 financial performance with added comments on our short-term 
outlook. I will complete the introduction with some additional comments on the current business 
environment and on our future business outlook.
Wolfgang if you will
Wolfgang Nickl
Thank you Peter and welcome everyone. 
I will first highlight some of the first-quarter accomplishments and then provide our guidance for 
the second-quarter of 2018. 
Q1 net sales came in at 2.29 billion Euros, somewhat stronger than guided driven by product 
mix and a strong DUV business. Net system sales of 1.67 billion Euros, was primarily driven by 
strong memory revenue, which contributed 74% of sales. Logic, which now combines Foundry 
and IDM sales, made up 26% of system sales. Installed Base Management sales for the 
quarter came in at 617 million Euros, which was just above our guidance. Gross margin for the 
quarter came in at 48.7%, which was 70 basis points above the upper end of our guidance 
range, driven by both volume and mix. Overall OPEX came in slightly above guidance, with 
R&D expenses at 357 million Euros and SG&A expenses at 114 million Euros. 
Turning to the balance sheet, we ended last quarter with cash, cash equivalents and short-term 
investments at a level of 3.19 billion Euros. During the quarter we purchased approximately 170 
2
million Euros worth of shares. This means we still have 2.33 billion Euros of our 2018/2019 
share buyback program remaining.
Moving to the order book, Q1 system bookings came in at a strong 2.44 billion Euros. 57% of 
the order in-take was from logic customers, driven by EUV. Memory made up the remaining 
43% of order volume, driven by DUV. We took nine new EUV orders in the quarter. 
Additionally, we received four orders for High-NA R&D systems from three customers and on 
top of this we sold options for eight High-NA Early Volume Systems. High-NA is our next 
generation EUV system which will enable geometrical shrink beyond the next decade. The 
initial selling price for these High NA systems is around 270 million Euros. We will receive 40% 
as a down payment and the remaining 60% will be milestone based, with the majority of the 
milestone payments expected before shipment. The options were sold for 50 million Euros 
each, with payments starting this year.
At this point I would like to comment on our reporting of bookings and backlog going forward. As 
we have communicated a number of times in the past, we establish our joint demand forecasts 
with our customers via very routine and comprehensive planning cycles. Order flow can be 
lumpy and therefore does not always reflect our business accurately. We believe reporting 
bookings and backlog provides limited value and therefore backlog will no longer be reported. 
As we want to provide some additional visibility during our initial EUV ramp phase, we will 
continue to report bookings throughout this year. We currently plan to no longer report bookings 
beginning in 2019. 
With that I would like to turn to our expectations and guidance for the second quarter of 2018.
We expect Q2 total net sales between 2.5 and 2.6 billion Euros. Our total net sales forecast 
includes almost 600 million Euros for our EUV business while we target to ship three EUV 
systems in the quarter. Our Q2 EUV revenue forecast is a combination of revenue upon 
shipment and deferred revenue from prior quarters. This catch up of deferred revenue was 
previously forecasted for the second half of the year. On EUV revenue guidance, we have 
communicated that we will provide quarterly guidance until we are recognizing the majority of 
revenue for a system at the time of its shipment. We expect this to happen in Q2 and will 
therefore no longer provide quarterly EUV revenue guidance starting in 2019. 
3
For the full year, our shipment plan has changed from 22 to 20 EUV systems. This change was 
due to a combination of anticipated end of year shipment logistics challenges, due to multiple 
shipments in the fourth quarter, as well as customer fab readiness. The two affected systems 
this year will ship early 2019 and will not impact customers' EUV production ramp plans. As a 
result of this adjustment, our EUV revenue for 2018 is now expected to be around 2.1 billion 
Euros versus 2.3 billion Euros that we had indicated previously. I would like to highlight though 
that we expect this reduction to be more than compensated by stronger DUV and Applications 
businesses.
We expect our Q2 Installed Base Management revenue to again come in around 600 million 
Euros. Gross margin for Q2 is expected to be around 43%, impacted by the significant increase 
in EUV sales in the quarter. R&D expenses for Q2 will reflect continued accelerated 
investments in our portfolio and will come in around 375 million Euros. SG&A is expected to 
come in at about 115 million Euros.
We have started a new share buyback program for 2018/19 of up to 2.5 billion Euros. In Q1, 
170 million Euros worth of shares were repurchased. Additionally, we have also proposed a 17 
percent increase in our dividend to 1.40 Euros per share to our annual shareholder meeting 
which takes place on April the 25th in Veldhoven. The dividend payment is valued at around 
600 million Euros. 
We are excited about 2018. Customers' demand for our products continues to be strong with 
strengthening demand in DUV as well as Applications. In addition, we see strong demand for 
EUV as customers ramp this technology in production and have committed to this next 
generation technology. We look forward to a year of continued strong growth in both revenue 
and profitability. 
With that I’d like to turn the call back over to you Peter.
4
Peter Wennink
Thank you, Wolfgang.
I would like to start off by announcing a major milestone reached this quarter regarding our next 
generation EUV technology, called High-Numerical Aperture or High-NA. We have aligned our 
development timeline with customers and received orders for four High-NA R&D systems from 
three leading semiconductor manufacturers targeted to start shipping in Q4 2021. We also sold 
to customers options to buy eight early volume systems targeted to start shipping in 2024. This 
is a significant milestone in that it demonstrates customers' commitment to EUV technology for 
future nodes and provides great growth opportunity as we extend lithography technology 
beyond the next decade. I will highlight some of the key product features in more detail later but 
I would like to first address our view of the business and demand drivers. 
As Wolfgang has highlighted, we had a good start to the year and our business continues to 
perform very well. The positive industry environment and increasing litho intensity, as customers 
migrate to more advanced nodes, continues to drive strong demand for our products in both 
logic and memory markets. Although this does not come as a surprise, we are increasingly 
optimistic about our 2018 outlook as compared to a quarter ago as we see strengthening 
demand in memory while logic demand remains solid. Based on expected growth and current 
guidance, we expect to see a significant increase in revenue in the second half of the year. In 
summary, stronger DUV will be primarily driven by memory and stronger EUV will be primarily 
driven by logic.
We plan to ship to over 15 greenfield fabs in 2018. It may be interesting to note that of these 
fabs, the majority will be in the China region of which 7 are for domestic Chinese customers. 
Memory strength in both DRAM and NAND is driven by increasing content as well as expanding 
end market applications. In DRAM, our customers continue to migrate to the 1X nm node, along 
with required wafer capacity additions to meet bit demand. In NAND, a number of customers 
continue to ramp new greenfield fabs and scale vertically via stack of stacks, which requires 
additional lithography. With strengthening demand in both DRAM and NAND, we see significant 
year over year growth. Based on current third party estimates for both DRAM and NAND bit 
demand growth against our view of bit supply growth, we don't see major concerns regarding 
supply-demand balance through the year. 
5
Logic demand continues to be solid as customers ramp 10nm and 7nm nodes while the initial 
demand for the latter is the primary driver behind the significant increase in EUV demand this 
year. 
On the ASML product side let me start with an update of our EUV business.
In EUV, we continue to make progress as this technology starts to ramp in volume production. 
We delivered a configuration that achieved 125 wafers per hour at a customer site and continue 
to drive improvements in throughput performance, demonstrating 140 wafers per hour at ASML 
factory. We continue to focus on improving availability and work with our customers in support 
of infrastructure around EUV in volume production. Demand from our customers continues to 
be strong as they start ramping this technology in production. With a plan of 20 shipments in 
2018, this represents a doubling of output over last year's shipments. As we now move into the 
volume phase of this new technology ramp we will focus our operations and industrialization 
efforts on managing our supply chain and helping our customers with their fab readiness 
preparations. As Wolfgang mentioned, we have shifted two systems to early 2019 due to a 
combination of customer fab readiness and anticipated challenges regarding the logistics 
around year end shipments. However, based on our discussions with customers', our previously 
communicated estimates of their EUV layer adoption plans remain unchanged. As a reflection 
of their continued commitment to EUV production plans, we took orders for nine NXE:3400 
systems this quarter in support of our 2019 shipment plan of at least 30 systems.
As mentioned in my introduction, High-NA is our next generation EUV technology, which 
extends lithography and enables cost effective scaling beyond the next decade. The NA, 
numerical aperture, of the new optical system will increase from 0.33, on current EUV systems, 
to 0.55 on High-NA systems. In addition to new advanced optics driving improvements in 
imaging, platform innovations in stage technology will drive improvements in overlay and 
productivity. We are currently targeting an initial increase in productivity to 185 wafers per hour. 
Last year's investment in Carl Zeiss SMT will further solidify our development timeline and 
reduces the execution risk. With the addition of High-NA, ASML's product portfolio will include 
0.33 NA and 0.55 NA EUV, dry and immersion DUV, i- line as well as Holistic products, all 
designed to work together seamlessly in production. 
6
In DUV, we will increase our factory output to meet the market demand. Furthermore, our focus 
on productivity means we continue to boost our new system output and we expect to exceed 
the record productivity level reached last year. In addition to increasing the maximum 
configuration output per system, we are also continuously increasing productivity of our 
systems in the field. For instance, we achieved an output of 6000 wafers per day on an NXT 
system in a NAND fab, which translates to a five percent increase in productivity over 12-month
period. With both increased system shipment output as well as productivity increases of 
systems in the fabs, we are delivering further value to our customers via capacity and cost 
efficiency. 
In Holistic Lithography, we continue to see growth across our full portfolio of software and 
metrology products. Our YieldStar metrology continues to gain broadening adoption with recent 
growth via expansion in the memory market. We also shipped our first YieldStar 1375 system, 
which measures actual in-device lithography performance, enabling more accurate 
measurement of the device and thus driving yield improvements. We have shipped multiple 
pattern fidelity metrology tools, ePfm5, and are seeing initial positive customer results. This 
technology, where ASML's high resolution e-beam technology is combined with our 
computational lithography software, will enable e-beam based feedback to the scanner and 
deliver improved yield performance in volume production. To further drive e-beam productivity 
performance and expand application opportunity in volume production, we are developing multibeam technology. We successfully captured first images from our three by three beam proof of 
concept system. We see great growth opportunity in Holistic Litho business and expect its 
growth rate to exceed our overall revenue growth rate in the coming years. 
To summarize, this year we expect continued solid growth in both sales and profitability. We are 
more optimistic about our view on the year than we were a quarter ago due to the continued 
strengthening of memory demand while logic demand continues to be solid. We are on track to 
achieve our 2020 targets with significant growth potential beyond 2020. We plan to 
communicate our growth opportunity beyond 2020 at our Investor Day on November 8th this 
year. 
Last but not least as many of you know, this quarterly call is the last call with Wolfgang online 
helping us to bring clarity to our results and operations. It goes without saying that at least we at 
ASML will miss him dearly and we would like to take the opportunity to thank him 
7
wholeheartedly for his invaluable contributions to ASML. We wish him all the best in his new 
challenge at Bayer and we will follow him closely, rest assured.
With that we would be happy to take your questions.