Q1.2021 Financial Results - ASML
Page 1 of 7
ASML reports €4.4 billion net sales and €1.3 billion net income in Q1 2021 
Strong demand across markets drives expected sales growth towards 30% in 2021
VELDHOVEN, the Netherlands, April 21, 2021 - ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) today’s Investor Call – 2021 first-quarter results.
Peter Wennink
Welcome everyone, thank you for joining us for our Q1 2021 results conference call. I hope all of 
you and your families are healthy and safe. 
Before we begin the Q & A session Roger and I would like to provide an overview and some
commentary on the first quarter as well as provide our view of the coming quarters.
Roger will start with a review of our Q1 2021 financial performance with added comments on our 
short-term outlook. I will complete the introduction with some additional comments on the 
current business environment and on our future business outlook.
Roger.
Roger Dassen
Thank you Peter and welcome everyone.
I will first review the first-quarter financial accomplishments and then provide guidance on the 
second quarter of 2021.
Net sales came in above guidance at 4.4 billion euros primarily due to higher installed base 
business from upgrades.
We shipped 9 EUV systems and recognized 1.1 billion euros revenue from 7 systems this 
quarter. Due to the delay in one of our customer's roadmaps, we jointly decided to buy back two 
of their new systems and ship these to another customer this year. This was accounted for as a 
revenue reversal in Q1 2021. For the system shipped in Q4 2020 with a new configuration, we 
were able to complete site acceptance and recognized revenue this quarter. We also shipped 
one system this quarter without factory acceptance testing so revenue will be recognized in the 
subsequent quarter after customer site acceptance. Again, the net result is 7 EUV revenue 
systems in Q1. 
Q1.2021 Financial Results - ASML
Page 2 of 7
Net system sales of 3.1 billion euros was again more weighted towards Logic at 78 percent, with 
the remaining 22 percent from Memory. The strength in Logic drives both DUV and EUV 
revenue. The Memory business is mainly driven by DRAM.
Installed Base Management sales for the quarter came in at 1.2 billion euros, above guidance, 
due to increased upgrade business as customers pull forward software upgrades that can 
quickly increase productivity of systems in this high semiconductor demand environment. 
Gross margin for the quarter was 53.9 percent and was above guidance due primarily to the 
additional software upgrade business.
On operating expenses, R&D expenses came in at 623 million euros and SG&A expenses at 
168 million euros, which was slightly above our guidance.
Net income in Q1 was 1.3 billion euros, representing 30.5 percent of net sales and resulting in 
an EPS of 3.21 euros.
Turning to the balance sheet. 
We ended first-quarter with cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at a level of 4.7 
billion euros.
Moving to the order book, Q1 net system bookings came in at 4.7 billion euros, including 2.3 
billion euros for EUV systems and another strong quarter of DUV demand. Order intake was 
largely driven by Logic with 76 percent of bookings, primarily due to EUV order intake, with 
Memory accounting for the remaining 24 percent, 
With that I would like to turn to our expectations for the second quarter of 2021. 
We expect Q2 total net sales to be between 4.0 billion euros and 4.1 billion euros, the 
directionally lower guidance is primarily due to shipments in the quarter, both EUV and DUV, that 
will not receive factory acceptance testing due to customers' desire to bring systems into 
production as quickly as possible. Therefore we will recognize revenue in subsequent quarter(s) 
after completion of acceptance testing at customer site. In addition, the Installed Base business 
is expected to be lower in Q2 versus Q1 as customers pulled forward installation of productivity 
software upgrades to quickly increase wafer capacity. 
We expect our Q2 Installed Base Management sales to be around 900 million euros.
Q1.2021 Financial Results - ASML
Page 3 of 7
Gross margin for Q2 is expected to be around 49 percent. The lower gross margin quarter-onquarter is mainly due to delayed revenue from immersion systems that we plan to ship without 
factory acceptance testing as well as lower Installed Base Management sales versus Q1.
The expected R&D expenses for Q2 are 650 million euros and SG&A is expected to
come in at 175 million euros, reflecting a continued investment in the future growth of the 
company. In support of our aggressive product roadmaps and opportunity to pull in some of our 
high value product developments, we plan to increase our R&D investments, primarily in EUV, 
via increased development capacity. Furthermore, this increase will allow us to compensate for 
remote work impact. We don't expect this increase to scale at the same level as our revised 
revenue increase, with R&D expenses for 2021 around 14 to 15 percent of sales. We expect 
SG&A to remain around 4 percent of sales for 2021. 
Our estimated 2021 annualized effective tax rate is expected to be between 14 percent and 15 
percent.
As mentioned last quarter, ASML intends to declare a total dividend with respect to 2020 of 2.75 
euros per ordinary share. This is a 15 percent increase compared to the 2019 dividend. 
Recognizing the interim dividend of 1.20 euro per ordinary share paid in November 2020, this 
leads to a final dividend proposal to the Annual General Meeting of 1.55 euro per ordinary share. 
The 2021 Annual General Meeting of shareholders will take place on April 29, 2021 in 
Veldhoven.
In Q1 2021, ASML purchased 3.5 million shares under the 2020 through 2022 program for a 
total amount of over 1.6 billion euros. Our expected free cash flow generation enables the 
opportunity for continuation of significant share buybacks in the coming quarters and we expect 
to complete the execution of our current Share Buyback program early.
With that I’d like to turn the call back over to Peter.
Q1.2021 Financial Results - ASML
Page 4 of 7
Peter Wennink
Thank you, Roger.
As Roger has highlighted, we had a very strong quarter in both sales and profitability, driven by 
continued strength in both Logic and Memory as well as a significant demand for upgrades as 
customers look to bring additional capacity online as quickly as possible. The additional 
upgrades consisted primarily of software based productivity packages. We are seeing a 
significant increase in demand from our customers across all market segments and all nodes, 
mature and advanced, compared to three months ago and we expect another very strong year 
with demand across our entire product portfolio.
The steeper than expected recovery in demand for semiconductors, amplified by the COVID
induced lower investments of the industry in 2020, has created significant upside to demand 
over the past quarter. This more cyclical demand sits on top of the secular growth from the 
accelerated build-up of the worldwide digital infrastructure and is fueling demand not only for 
advanced and mature Logic nodes but also for Memory. 
In Logic, customers continue to see strong demand across a broad application space for both 
advanced nodes as well as mature nodes. Last quarter we expected revenue from Logic in 2021 
to be up 10 percent year on year, however we now expect Logic to be up around 30 percent this 
year. 
In Memory, the applications that are driving the strong Logic demand are also fueling demand 
for Memory. As we mentioned in earlier calls, the Memory recovery started last year and 
continues to strengthen as customers’ plans to increase capacity is driving significant demand 
for our systems in the second half of the year. Compared to last quarter where we expected 
revenue from Memory in 2021 to be up 20 percent year on year, we now expect Memory 
revenue to be up around 50 percent this year. 
On our Installed Base business, service revenue will continue to scale with the growing installed 
base and with increasing contribution from EUV services as these systems run more and more 
wafers in volume production. We are also supporting our customers with upgrades to maximize 
performance of their installed base. In order to meet the high demand in the current tight chip 
supply environment, customers are prioritizing software upgrades to quickly increase capacity, 
as reflected by our higher upgrade number in Q1. 
Q1.2021 Financial Results - ASML
Page 5 of 7
Some hardware upgrades require extended machine time to be installed and in the current high 
demand environment customers will be less willing to take systems down which has a 
dampening impact on the 2021 growth profile of hardware upgrades. We therefore still expect 
growth of our Installed Base business of around 10 percent this year as mentioned last quarter.
On EUV, we continue to see increasing customer confidence in this technology, which is 
translating to expanding layer counts in Logic and increasing deployment of EUV in Memory at 
multiple customers evidenced by a number of customer announcements around increases in 
their capex plans which will include spending on EUV for advanced nodes.
To support this strong EUV demand, we are working to increase our output capability. At the 
same time, we are driving our product roadmap to produce higher productivity machines which 
will increase the effective EUV capacity per system and the wafer output capacity of our 
customers. We plan to transition to the NXE:3600D system in the second half of the year, which 
will provide customers with a 15 to 20 percent higher productivity compared to the NXE:3400C 
systems shipping in the first half of the year. Limited by the available modules and parts this
year, we are still planning for growth of around 30 percent in EUV revenue this year.
With the expanding adoption of EUV at our customers, we see increased demand building in 
2022 and beyond. We are improving our manufacturing cycle time and are planning our supply 
chain for a capacity of around 55 systems next year. As a reminder, all of our planned shipments 
in 2022 will be NXE:3600D systems with the increased productivity capability. 
Our strengthened outlook on the year relative to last quarter is primarily driven by demand for 
DUV systems. With increased demand on leading edge nodes, as well as mature nodes running 
longer and ramping stronger, demand for both our immersion and dry systems is stronger than 
ever. We have put in place plans to increase our DUV capacity to help meet our customers’ 
increased demands. 
In our Applications business, as demand for scanners continues to increase, we expect a step 
up in demand for our YieldStar metrology systems, particularly in Logic. The newly released 
YieldStar 385 is beginning to ramp across our customer base as well. With the recovery in 
memory, specifically in 3D-NAND, we expect a substantial increase in e-beam inspection 
revenue this year.
Q1.2021 Financial Results - ASML
Page 6 of 7
For the industry at a high level, we see three trends driving considerable growth this year and in 
the years to come:
The first trend, in the shorter term there is a more cyclical or “catch-up” driven demand from 
decisions made in 2020 due to the global pandemic. These shortages were initially evident in 
the automotive market but more recently there are also indications of supply tightness impacting 
other market segments. We expect this to drive considerable demand for lithography systems 
this year and into next year.
The second, is a secular growth trend driven by the digital transformation taking place as we 
become a more connected world, across both people and machines. This transformation was 
further accelerated over the past year with the increased remote activity and reliance on 
technology to stay connected. These secular trends are driven by expanding end market 
applications such as 5G, AI and High Performance Computing. These and other mobile, 
distributed applications drive demand for both advanced Logic as well as more mature 
technology required for the services and applications that drive the growth of the digital 
infrastructure. Along with increased Logic demand comes increased Memory demand. This in 
turn drives demand across our entire product portfolio. 
And the third trend, which we are starting to see now and which we will likely continue to see 
longer term, is the desire for more technology sovereignty which includes semiconductor and 
silicon based technology, leading to a geographical decoupling as different governments put 
initiatives in place to localize supply chains and become more self-sufficient. This inevitably will 
create some level of inefficiency in the semiconductor supply chain and creates additional 
equipment demand as more fabs are strategically built across the globe. 
If you summarize the growth of the different segments and the trends just discussed, we now 
expect sales growth towards 30 percent this year. To achieve this growth, we are ramping up our 
capacity to support customer demand, resulting in a stronger second half. 
Q1.2021 Financial Results - ASML
Page 7 of 7
With the higher revenue and increased mix of DUV and upgrades, we now expect gross margin 
to be between 51-52 percent this year.
For the industry as a whole, the long-term demand drivers only increase our confidence in our 
future growth outlook towards 2025. 
We plan to provide an update on our 2025 scenarios at our Investor Day in September.
With that we would be happy to take your questions.