Q4/FY.2020 Financial Results - ASML
Page 1 of 6
ASML reports €14.0 billion net sales and €3.6 billion net income in 2020 
Continued growth expected in 2021 due to strong Logic demand and recovery in Memory
VELDHOVEN, the Netherlands, January 20, 2021 - ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) today’s Investor Call – 2020 fourth-quarter and 
full-year results.
Peter Wennink
Welcome everyone, thank you for joining us for our fourth-quarter and full-year 2020 results 
conference call. I do hope all of you and your families are healthy and safe. 
Before we begin the Q & A session Roger and I would like to provide an overview and some
commentary on the fourth-quarter and full-year 2020, as well as provide our view of the coming 
quarters.
Roger will start with a review of our fourth-quarter and full-year 2020 financial performance with 
added comments on our short-term outlook. I will complete the introduction with some additional 
comments on the current business environment and on our future business outlook.
Roger if you will.
Roger Dassen
Thank you Peter and welcome everyone.
I will first review the fourth-quarter and full-year financial accomplishments and then provide 
guidance on the first quarter of 2021.
Net sales came in above guidance at 4.3 billion euros primarily due to additional DUV system 
revenue and upgrade business opportunities.
We shipped 9 EUV systems and recognized 1.1 billion euros revenue from 8 systems this 
quarter. One system was shipped with a new configuration that needs to be qualified at 
customer site so revenue will be recognized after site acceptance test in early 2021. 
 
Net system sales of 3.2 billion euros was again more weighted towards Logic at 72 percent, with 
the remaining 28 percent from Memory. The strength in Logic drives both DUV and EUV 
revenue. The recovery in Memory business is mainly driven by DRAM.
Q4/FY.2020 Financial Results - ASML
Page 2 of 6
Installed Base Management sales for the quarter came in at 1.1 billion euros, above guidance, 
showing continued strength in our service and upgrade business.
Gross margin for the quarter was 52.0 percent and was above guidance due to the additional 
DUV immersion and upgrade business.
On operating expenses, R&D expenses came in at 556 million euros and SG&A expenses at 
152 million euros, which was slightly above our guidance.
Net income in Q4 was 1.4 billion euros, representing 31.7 percent of net sales and resulting in 
an EPS of 3.23 euros.
Turning to the balance sheet. 
We ended the fourth quarter with cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at a level 
of 7.4 billion euros, which is significantly higher due to customer down payments and early 
payments which materialized in 2020.
Moving to the order book, Q4 net system bookings came in at 4.2 billion euros, including 1.1 
billion euros for EUV systems (net 6) and a very strong DUV demand. Order intake was largely 
driven by Logic with 78 percent of bookings and Memory the remaining 22 percent, 
For the full year, net sales grew 18 percent to 14.0 billion euros. 
EUV system sales in 2020 was 4.5 billion euros, which is about a 60% increase from last year.
On EUV margins, we continue to drive profitability in both the systems as well as the service 
business. We achieved our 40 percent system gross margin in 2020 and delivered a positive 
margin on EUV service. We expect the upward trend for both systems and services to continue 
in future years. 
The Installed Base Management sales was 3.7 billion euros, which is a 30 percent increase 
compared to previous year. 
In 2020, we had total bookings of 11.3 billion euros, reflecting customers' strong demand for 
EUV and DUV technology. DUV booking value was at a record 7.3 billion euros, with demand 
from both advanced as well as mature market technologies.
Q4/FY.2020 Financial Results - ASML
Page 3 of 6
Our R&D spending increased to 2.2 billion euros in 2020. While we continue to invest in DUV 
and Applications product innovation, the increase was primarily driven by the acceleration of our
EUV roadmap, both low and High-NA. Overall R&D investments as a percentage of 2020 sales 
was about 16 percent, SG&A was about 4 percent of sales.
Net income for the full year was 3.6 billion euros resulting in 25.4 percent of net sales and an 
EPS of 8.49 euros.
Improvements in working capital contributed to a Free Cash Flow generation of 3.6 billion euros, 
as we continue to invest capex in support of our roadmap and planned capacity ramp. Excess 
cash will be returned as per our policy.
With that I would like to turn to our expectations for the first quarter of 2021. 
We expect Q1 total net sales of between 3.9 billion euros and 4.1 billion euros, which is a very 
strong start of the year and a reflection of the current market demand. 
We expect our Q1 Installed Base Management sales to be around 950 million euros.
Gross margin for Q1 is expected to be between 50 percent and 51 percent.
The expected R&D expenses for Q1 are 620 million euros and SG&A is expected to
come in at 165 million euros, reflecting a continued investment in the future growth of the 
company. The higher R&D is to support roadmap plans to drive further innovation of our EUV, 
DUV and Apps products. The SG&A increase is driven by higher IT, security costs and general 
organizational growth. These quarterly run rates are a good indicator for the expected full year 
operating expenses.
Our estimated 2021 annualized effective tax rate is expected to be between 14 percent and 15 
percent.
Regarding our capital return, ASML paid total dividends of 1.1 billion euros in 2020, made up of 
the 2019 final dividend and 2020 interim dividend.
ASML intends to declare a total dividend with respect to 2020 of 2.75 euro per ordinary share. 
Recognizing the interim dividend of 1.20 euro per ordinary share paid in November 2020, this 
leads to a final dividend proposal to the General Meeting of 1.55 euro per ordinary share. This is 
a 15 percent increase compared to the 2019 dividend. The 2021 Annual General Meeting of 
shareholders will take place on April 29, 2021 in Veldhoven.
Q4/FY.2020 Financial Results - ASML
Page 4 of 6
Through December 31, 2020, ASML acquired 3.9 million shares under the 2020 - 2022 program 
for a total amount of 1.2 billion euros. Given our strong cash position and positive outlook, we 
expect to execute a significant share buyback in Q1 2021.
With that I’d like to turn the call back over to Peter.
Peter Wennink
Thank you, Roger.
As Roger has highlighted, we had a very strong quarter resulting in another solid year of growth 
in both sales and profitability, driven by strong Logic, recovering Memory demand and a 
significant step up in our Installed Base revenue. We were able to achieve an 18 percent top line 
growth and 37 percent growth in profitability despite some unique challenges with having to 
continue to run our business through the pandemic. This all thanks to our employees and 
partners who have done a remarkable job executing in this challenging environment. However, 
we continue to remain vigilant as this COVID-19 induced crisis is not behind us yet. Following a 
strong 2020, we currently expect another year of good growth in revenue and profitability in 
2021.
In Logic, we expect another very healthy year driven by a further broadening of the application 
space fueled by the global digital transition. Customers continue to see strong demand for 
advanced nodes, which includes the secular growth drivers such as 5G, AI and HPC. In addition 
and also driven by the digital transformation, we are seeing a strengthening of demand for the 
more mature nodes, across a wide variety of markets such as consumer, automotive and 
industrial. While we are still very early on in the year, we think that with these demand drivers on 
full throttle for advanced as well as mature nodes, we expect Logic revenue to be up at least 10 
percent, from an already very high number of 7.4 billion euros in 2020. 
In Memory, customers have indicated that inventory levels continue to come down and expect a 
further tightening of supply throughout the year. As is the case with Logic, the digital 
transformation is also fueling memory demand across a broadening application space. 
Customers continue to see healthy demand in data centers with increasing memory content in 
consumer electronics. With customers' indicating stronger bit growth this year, for DRAM around 
20 percent and for 3D-NAND around 30-35 percent, and taking into account lithography tool 
utilization already at high levels, we expect the recovery in lithography demand for memory to 
continue through this year. 
Q4/FY.2020 Financial Results - ASML
Page 5 of 6
Therefore, we expect Memory revenue to be up around 20 percent this year from 2.9 billion 
euros in 2020. Although DRAM primarily uses DUV technology today, we do expect our EUV 
shipments to DRAM customers to increase in the coming years. 
 
On our Installed Base business, service revenue will continue to scale with the growing installed 
base. We expect an increasing in contribution from EUV service revenue as these systems run 
more and more wafers in volume production. Customers will continue to utilize upgrades to 
increase capacity and improve imaging and overlay performance required on future nodes. With 
this continued growth in both service and upgrade business this year, we expect Installed Base 
revenue to be up around 10 percent this year from 3.7 billion euros in 2020.
All in all, we have started the year with robust demand across the entire industry and across all 
geographical regions. This should bode well for a double-digit upside from our 2020 revenue 
numbers. We feel comfortable with the levels of potential growth expectations per business 
segment but clearly see potential upside to these numbers when we can disregard any further 
impact of export control regulations resulting from the current geopolitical situation.
I would now like to update you on our products and businesses, starting with EUV. 
EUV is making strong progress and continues to mature as we execute our roadmap and grow 
our Logic and DRAM business. As Roger mentioned, we shipped 9 systems and recognized 
revenue on 8 systems in Q4, bringing the total to 31 systems in 2020 with a revenue of 4.5 
billion euros for the year. This translates to about a 60 percent growth in EUV systems revenue 
year on year, reflecting the expanding use of this technology in high volume manufacturing.
Based on customers’ growing EUV demand in advanced nodes we currently expect a growth of 
around 30 percent over last year, translating to around 5.8 billion euros in EUV system revenue 
for 2021. We continue to improve the EUV manufacturing cycle time to enable a capacity in our 
factory to meet the growing EUV demand. 
We will continue to drive the EUV 0.33NA product roadmap which is aligned to our customers’ 
node cadence. Our goal is to deliver value to our customers via performance improvements in 
imaging, overlay and productivity. As customers continue to shrink on future nodes, the 
performance improvements of our 0.33NA systems roadmap will also enable cost effective 
double patterning solutions before customers reach a point where they will require High-NA to 
reduce process complexity. 
Q4/FY.2020 Financial Results - ASML
Page 6 of 6
We are aligning with customers on the roadmap timing of High-NA insertion in volume 
production, currently estimated to be in the 2025-2026 timeframe. To meet this timeline, we will 
start integration of modules this year and plan to have a first qualified system in 2022. We plan 
initial installation of the first systems at customer site in 2023 and plan to provide a more 
detailed update on our High-NA program during our Investor Day this year. 
In our DUV business, we are focused on meeting our customers' increasing demand for all of 
our DUV products by maximizing factory capacity, reducing installation cycle time and optimizing 
performance of systems in the field. As we mentioned earlier, the application space for Logic is 
expanding rapidly which also has an effect on the demand for DUV products across our entire 
product offering. The demand has actually been stronger than we anticipated some years ago 
which means that we have increased our investment in R&D to provide our customers with ever 
more powerful and productive litho machines to help them deal with the increasing demand and 
lower cost per chip challenges. Our DUV R&D plan therefore includes a significant program to 
bring DUV from our XT platform onto the NXT platform thereby seriously boosting productivity 
and lithographic performance such as CD and overlay.
In our Applications business, we had a record year for YieldStar shipments and shipped the first 
YieldStar 385 to a customer in Q4. The YieldStar 385 offers the latest overlay and focus 
metrology, with enhanced throughput and accuracy, to meet customers' future node 
requirements. 
We also shipped an additional two eScan1000 Multibeam systems in Q4, bringing the total 
number of shipments in 2020 to three. With nine beams and high-speed stage technology, these 
systems provide up to 600 percent higher productivity than single beam systems. 
In summary, 2020 was another great year despite the challenges presented by the pandemic. 
For 2021, taking into account that we are coming off a higher 2020 revenue base, we still expect 
a year of double-digit growth. This is driven by strong demand in Logic and continued recovery 
in Memory with potential upside to these numbers when we can disregard any further impact of 
export control regulations. The build out of the digital infrastructure across multiple markets 
drives demand for both advanced as well as mature process nodes. This is expected to fuel 
demand across our entire product portfolio. Although there are of course still some near-term 
macro and geopolitical uncertainties, the long-term demand drivers only increase our confidence 
in our future growth outlook towards 2025. 
With that we would be happy to take your questions.