Q2.2019 Financial Results - ASML
Page 1 of 6
ASML reports EUR 2.6 billion sales at 43.0% gross margin in Q2
Stronger Logic compensates for Memory weakness; 2019 total sales view unchanged
VELDHOVEN, the Netherlands, July 17, 2019 - ASML Holding N.V. (ASML) today’s Investor Call -
2019 second-quarter results.
Peter Wennink
Good morning / good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and thank you for joining us for 
our Q2 2019 results conference call.
Before we begin the Q & A session Roger and I would like to provide an overview and 
some commentary on the second quarter, as well as provide our view of the coming 
quarters. Roger will start with a review of our Q2 financial performance with added 
comments on our short-term outlook. I will complete the introduction with some 
additional comments on the current business environment and on our future business 
outlook.
Roger if you want.
Roger Dassen
Thank you Peter and welcome everyone.
I will first highlight some of the second-quarter accomplishments and then provide our 
guidance for the third-quarter of 2019.
Q2.2019 Financial Results - ASML
Page 2 of 6
Q2 net sales came in at 2.57 billion Euros, within our guidance.
Net system sales of 1.85 billion Euros was more weighted towards Logic at 61 
percent, with the remaining 39 percent from Memory, representing a similar split as 
the previous quarter. We reported EUV system revenue of 764 million Euros on 7 
shipments, which was one more than guided.
Installed Base Management sales for the quarter came in at 717 million Euros, which 
was a bit higher than guided.
Gross margin for the quarter was 43.0 percent, which was above guidance due to 
better EUV manufacturing results and higher field upgrade sales, more than 
compensating the negative mix effect in comparison to Q1.
Overall R&D and SG&A expenses came in as guided, with R&D expenses at 487 
million Euros and SG&A expenses at 123 million Euros.
Turning to the balance sheet, 884 million Euros was paid as dividend and 15 million 
Euros worth of shares were repurchased in Q2. We ended last quarter with cash, 
cash equivalents and short-term investments at a level of 2.34 billion Euros.
Moving to the order book, Q2 system bookings came in at 2.83 billion Euros, which is 
100 percent up from Q1 bookings, mainly driven by EUV, where we took 10 new 
orders in the quarter. Logic order intake was 67 percent of total value with the 
remaining 33 percent from Memory, again reflecting the strong logic demand 
expected this year.
Net income in Q2 was 476 million Euros, representing 18.5 percent of net sales and 
an EPS of 1.13 Euros. This was positively impacted by higher gross margin and a 
one-time tax benefit.
Q2.2019 Financial Results - ASML
Page 3 of 6
With that I would like to turn to our expectations for the third-quarter of 2019.
We expect Q3 total net sales of around € 3.0 billion Euros.
Our total net sales forecast for Q3 includes around € 750 million Euros of EUV 
system revenue, on 7 planned shipments.
We expect our Q3 Installed Base Management revenue to be around € 700 million
Euros.
Gross margin for Q3 is expected to be between 43 percent and 44 percent, which is 
slightly higher than Q2. The expected improvement in margin due to expected higher 
volume will be partially offset by customer configuration mix. We continue to expect 
significant improvements in gross margin in the fourth-quarter driven by higher 
system sales, improved product mix, increased field upgrades, shipment of higher 
margin NXE:3400C systems, as well as contribution of EUV service revenue.
This will enable us to achieve a gross margin for Q4, which approaches our 2020 
target of over 50 percent.
The expected R&D expenses for Q3 are around 495 million Euros and SG&A is 
expected to come in at around 125 million Euros. Our estimated 2019 annualized 
effective tax rate is around 9 percent, because of a one-time tax benefit in 2019. We 
still expect our long-term effective tax rate to be 14 percent.
With that I’d like to turn the call back over to Peter.
Q2.2019 Financial Results - ASML
Page 4 of 6
Peter Wennink
Thank you, Roger.
As Roger has highlighted, although it was another modest but decent quarter, results 
came in at or above guidance and we expect further strengthening in the coming 
quarters. The macroeconomic environment continues to provide market volatility 
which translates to a level of uncertainty in the semiconductor industry. Demand for 
memory remains soft while excess inventories are being worked down in the supply 
chain. Some of the second half memory demand risk that we discussed last quarter 
has meanwhile materialized and resulted in system push outs this year into 2020. 
This memory weakness has been compensated by strengthening of logic demand 
such that our view of 2019 total sales remains unchanged. As such we expect 2019 
to be a growth year with sales and profitability increasing throughout 2019.
In memory, the market continues to digest the high level of capacity additions put in 
place over the past few years. This digestion started last year and was exacerbated 
by decelerating macro-economic growth. This will likely extend throughout most of 
this year. Based on lower demand from our memory customers, we now see our 
memory sales down around 30 percent, year on year, versus 20 percent indicated 
last quarter. As discussed last quarter, we see two contributing components of 
memory demand this year. We have characterized one as strategic, which we expect 
will happen largely independent of market conditions. This includes both early 
Chinese domestic memory ramp and EUV for DRAM. This component is valued at 
approximately 1 billion euros, which we believe has low risk of push outs. The second 
is the bit supply component which we previously indicated as having a higher risk. If 
you remove the strategic component from our estimated 2019 memory demand, you 
get a lithography spend for memory bit supply of around 2.1 billion euros, which is 
around 45 percent lower than the comparable spend in 2018. 
Q2.2019 Financial Results - ASML
Page 5 of 6
As we have already shipped around 1.2 billion euros to memory bit supply in the first 
half of the year, this leaves around 900 million euros in the second half of the year 
targeted for memory bit supply, which has an inherently higher risk profile than the 
strategic investments in memory. On the positive side, our memory customers 
continue to indicate they are making significant reductions in wafer output to an 
extent we haven't seen in previous downturns. This reduction in spend and lower 
wafer output will help in reaching a more normalized supply demand balance.
Logic will clearly be our growth driver in 2019 with the majority of the demand linked 
to new technology transitions and advanced node additions. We are seeing increased 
demand from our customers, driven by accelerated ramp of 7nm node and beyond 
supporting, amongst others, the introduction of 5G technology. With this 
strengthening, we now expect our logic business to be up around 65 percent for the 
year, relative to last year, which is 15 percentage points up from the 50 percent 
communicated last quarter.
Along with increased system demand in the second half, we also expect stronger 
demand for field upgrades which translates to low single digit percentage growth of 
Installed Base Management revenue.
Let me now turn to the ASML product side and update you on our EUV business.
In EUV, we recently demonstrated >170 wafers per hour on our first NXE:3400C 
system. We have also run >2000 wafers per day under customer memory production 
conditions. This is a significant milestone in that it confirms the required capability for 
memory production which means that our focus will be on stability and uptime to 
secure our customers' ramp plans. We plan to ship the first NXE:3400C system in Q3 
with a higher number of C systems planned in Q4. As Roger mentioned, we shipped 
7 EUV systems in Q2, one more than guided, and received ten orders. 
Q2.2019 Financial Results - ASML
Page 6 of 6
As a confirmation of the potential of the NXE:3400C for cost-effective high-volume 
memory production, we received a number of EUV orders this quarter for systems 
slated for use in memory. Customers are aggressively bringing new technology to the 
market, which reflects on the solid demand for 30 systems this year. The demand for 
NXE:3400C systems has proven to be high. Our 2019 shipment plan is significantly 
skewed towards the second half of the year and to Q4 specifically. Next to the back 
loaded plan, we are also transitioning to a new scanner model, as I said earlier the 
3400C, for which suppliers need to ramp their production. Taking both of these into 
account, there is risk of a few systems planned for Q4 moving into the first weeks of 
2020. This risk has been taken into account in our comments regarding our full year 
2019 sales outlook. In any case, the strong demand for the NXE:3400C, as well as 
the continued progress in the ramp of our production capacity, is clear.
In summary, despite uncertainty in the current environment, we continue to see a 
stronger second half with a strengthening of both sales and profitability quarter on 
quarter. Logic will be the primary driver of growth this year and demand has further 
strengthened from last quarter as customers accelerate the ramp of their advanced 
nodes. Memory demand has more uncertainty and has further weakened since last 
quarter. However, as mentioned before the stronger logic demand compensates for 
the weaker memory demand. In total, our overall sales outlook for the year remains 
unchanged and we expect 2019 to be another growth year.
With that we would be happy to take your questions.