This transcript is provided for the convenience of investors only, for a full recording please see
the Q4 2019 Earnings Call webcast.
Alphabet Q4 2019 Earnings Call
February 3, 2020
Candice (Operator): Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by and welcome to the
Alphabet fourth quarter 2019 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants’ lines are in
a listen-only mode. After the speakers’ presentation, there will be a question and answer
session. To ask a question during this session, you will need to press star and then one on your
telephone. If you require any further assistance, please press star then zero. I would now like to
hand the conference over to your speaker today, Ellen West, Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Ellen West, VP Investor Relations: Thank you, Candice. Good afternoon, everyone, and
welcome to Alphabet’s fourth-quarter 2019 earnings conference call. With us today are Sundar
Pichai and Ruth Porat.
Now I’ll quickly cover the Safe Harbor. Some of the statements that we make today regarding
our business performance and operations, and our expected level of capital expenditures may
be considered forward-looking, and such statements involve a number of risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially.
For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in our most recent Form 10-K
filed with the SEC. During this call, we will present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial
measures. A reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures is included in today's earnings
press release, which is distributed and available to the public through our Investor Relations
website located at abc.xyz/investor.
And now I’ll turn the call over to Sundar.
Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google: Thank you, Ellen, and
good afternoon, everyone.
It’s a privilege to join the call as the CEO of both Alphabet and Google, after four years as CEO
of Google.
I’d like to start by thanking Larry and Sergey for giving all of us at Google a timeless mission,
enduring values and an opportunity to have an impact on the world.
There’s a lot I want to cover today and I also want to leave plenty of time for any questions you
may have for me and Ruth.
As you’ve seen in our press release, we’ve added new revenue disclosures to give greater
insight into our business.
Search and other Google properties continue to drive great results, with total revenues in 2019
of $98 billion and strong growth. I’m also really pleased with two of our newer growth areas.
1
YouTube reached $15 billion in ads revenues in 2019, growing at 36% compared with 2018.
And it now has over 20 million Music and Premium paid subscribers, and over 2 million
YouTube TV paid subscribers -- ending 2019 at a $3 billion annual run rate in YouTube
subscriptions and other non-advertising revenues.
Google Cloud ended 2019 at a more than $10 billion run rate, up 53% year-on-year driven by
significant growth in GCP. The growth rate of GCP was meaningfully higher than that of Cloud
overall and GCP’s growth rate accelerated from 2018 to 2019.
Before I talk about the highlights of the quarter, I want to take a step back and give some early
thoughts about my approach to managing Alphabet and the Other Bets.
We have always taken a long term view, investing in deep computer science and technology.
Important trends like the wider adoption and application of artificial intelligence, ambient
computing and the move to the Cloud, underline our investments across Google and our other
Alphabet companies.
Our work in healthcare is a great example of how our investments in these areas allows us to
deliver solutions across an entire sector:
Google Cloud works with hospitals and healthcare providers to securely manage their patients’
data - data that is much more secure in the Cloud than in paper records or on premises.
Our AI teams at Google also work with partners to apply AI to help them and their patients --
whether it’s developing better health systems, or helping with the diagnosis and detection of
disease.
Among their broader efforts, our Other Bets Verily and Calico are also partnering with industry
leaders, to use AI and cloud technologies to improve clinical trials, research and drug
development.
Our thesis has always been to apply these deep computer science capabilities across Google
and our Other Bets to grow and develop into new areas. The Alphabet structure allows us to
have a portfolio of different businesses with different time horizons, without trying to stretch a
single management team across different areas. We will continue to take a long term view,
managing the portfolio with the discipline and rigor needed to deliver long-term returns.
Many of our Other Bets are getting to the stage where it now makes sense for them to partner
closely with other players and investors in the industry.
Waymo's technological leadership is widely reported - its cars have driven 20 million miles
across more than 25 U.S. cities. Waymo is now serving over 1,500 monthly active riders in
Metro Phoenix and continues scaling fully driverless by matching early riders with driverless
vehicles and charging for these rides.
As Waymo looks to its evolution as a business, it’s focusing on strategic partnerships - for
example it’s working closely with OEMs and other businesses to build out ride-hailing and
delivery business lines.
2
And Verily is an example of a company in the portfolio that has outside investors, Silver Lake
and Temasek, as well as its own Board. We’ll consider opportunities for some of our Other Bets
to take similar steps over time.
Now, onto highlights from the quarter.
First, Search and the Related Google properties.
As I mentioned on our last call, our neural-network based technique for natural language
processing, called BERT, is the biggest advancement in Search in the last five years. It now
impacts 10% of searches. And in Q4, we rolled it out in over 70 languages.
In Maps, we are celebrating our 15th anniversary very soon and in the past year we brought
reliable directions to 630 million additional people in locations that previously weren't well
mapped. We added as many buildings to maps using ML in 2019 as we have added using all
techniques in the previous decade. With all these improvements, user growth is strong and the
range of things people are doing with Google Maps continues to expand as well.
The Google Assistant now helps more than 500 million monthly users across 90 countries get
things done - across smart speakers and smart displays, phones, TVs, cars and more.
Shopping and commerce is another exciting area. We’re making strong leadership hires in this
area to help build a thriving business for partners of all sizes. Over the Black Friday and Cyber
Monday holiday weekend, we had the largest number of daily shoppers on Google.com ever in
our history. Throughout the entire holiday shopping season, we also expanded the selection of
products on Google due to a 4x uptick in the number of US merchants participating in our
Shopping Actions program.
Second, YouTube.
Speaking of shopping, people can now easily buy products in YouTube’s home feed and in
search results, making it possible for advertisers to reach even more audiences. Try searching
for “Puma shoes review” on YouTube to see an example. With all the related content on
YouTube like unboxing and beauty videos, this is a format people love and it delivers a simple
in-video buying experience.
A huge focus is continuing our work to keep YouTube safe for users, creators and advertisers.
You may have seen a blog post today about our work to promote authoritative content and
remove misleading information about the upcoming 2020 elections. For example, we’re
applying our deceptive content policies to reduce misleading information about voting locations
or the census process.
As I mentioned earlier, we’re pleased with YouTube’s growth in advertising and subscriptions --
and we also are pleased with the early results from other revenue options we offer creators,
including memberships, brand integrations, merchandise and ticket sales.
Continuing on now to Cloud.
3
We’re really pleased with the momentum we’re seeing in Cloud. Year on year, the number of
deals over $50 million more than doubled.
The investments in Cloud’s go-to-market expansion are resulting in customer momentum.
Wayfair is one of the many retailers, who successfully ran holiday operations on Google Cloud.
In addition, Lowe’s, which began transitioning off its legacy e-commerce system in late 2018 to
Google Cloud, worked with us during this year’s peak holiday buying season to improve the
stability of their e-commerce site.
Worth noting, at peak time, customers in our Black Friday/Cyber Monday program used 4x the
compute resources compared to previous year, and our platform experienced 100% uptime.
Lufthansa Group is using our AI solutions to develop new tools that will improve air travel
operations. The U.S. Postal Service also chose Google Cloud AI to improve business
processes and customer experience.
We’ve recently signed a 10 year agreement with Sabre to help them improve operations and
develop new airline and hospitality services.
Finally, Google Other Revenue.
Android continues to thrive. I’m proud to announce that over $80 billion has been earned by
developers around the world from Google Play, showing the popularity of our platform.
There are now over 2 billion active monthly users of Google Play.
Hardware is still in the early stages of delivering on our vision for ambient computing. Our
Home devices demonstrate how this vision can come to life in creating the home of the future,
with our new Nest Mini and Nest Hub Max selling well over the holidays, following on from the
Pixel 3A which sold well last year. With Pixel 4, we continued to build out our capabilities and
are keenly focused on execution, delivering great user experiences and broadening our
distribution. And our pending acquisition of Fitbit will give us a foundation in wearables. I’m
excited about our roadmap ahead across our products.
Overall in 2020, our teams at Google are focusing on four key things.
First, creating the most helpful products for everyone. We’re really focused on ensuring that our
products like Search, Maps and the Assistant are helping people in their daily lives.
Second, providing the most trusted experiences for our users. We’re doing lots of work to keep
improving users’ privacy and security, while also keeping harmful content off our systems.
Third, executing at scale. This will show up as more seamless products across various surfaces
and platforms, like the Google Assistant, deeper partnerships, and better use of our shared
infrastructure. For example, Activision Blizzard recently chose Google as a strategic partner,
using Google Cloud’s computing infrastructure, YouTube for live streaming and our AI tools.
Putting together these multi-product partnerships helps us unlock great opportunities for our
partners.
4
And fourth, creating sustainable value. This means optimizing our usage of computing
resources, and also growing business opportunities in areas like YouTube, Cloud, Play,
Hardware and beyond.
So as you can see, there’s a lot happening at the company, and a real sense of excitement and
focus. I want to thank our employees for all the great work in 2019. With that, I’ll turn it over to
Ruth and I look forward to your questions.
Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google: Thanks, Sundar. We’re very
pleased with our strong 2019 results, with Total Alphabet Revenues of $162 billion, up 18%
year-on-year, or 20% in constant currency. In dollar terms, this represents an increase of $25
billion in revenues relative to 2018.
I will review our quarterly and annual results, including our new revenue disclosures, and
conclude with our outlook. Sundar and I will then take your questions.
Starting with consolidated Alphabet results, in the fourth quarter our total revenues were $46.1
billion, up 17% year-on-year, and up 19% in constant currency. Our results were driven by
ongoing strength in Search, YouTube and Google Cloud, offset by a decline in Hardware
revenues.
Details of Alphabet’s consolidated revenues by geographic region are available in our earnings
press release.
Regarding our key expense lines, on a consolidated basis, total cost of revenues, including
TAC, was $21.0 billion, up 17% year-on-year.
Other cost of revenues on a consolidated basis was $12.5 billion, up 19% year-over-year,
primarily driven by Google-related expenses.
The biggest factors here, again this quarter, were costs associated with our data centers and
other operations, including depreciation; and then content acquisition costs - primarily for
YouTube, and mostly for our advertising-supported content in what has been a seasonally
strong quarter for YouTube, but also for our newer paid YouTube Music and Premium
subscription services, as well as YouTube TV, which have higher content acquisition costs as a
percentage of their revenues; these were partially offset by a decline in costs associated with
lower hardware sales.
Operating expenses were $15.8 billion, with headcount growth being the largest driver of
year-on-year growth for R&D and sales and marketing expenses. Headcount drives both
compensation and related facilities expenses.
After headcount growth, the biggest driver in R&D expenses was an increase in
valuation-based compensation charges in certain Other Bets.
Stock-based compensation totaled $2.6 billion.
5
Headcount was up 4,803 from the third quarter and up 20% over 2018. Again, the majority of
new hires were engineers and product managers. In terms of product areas, the most sizable
headcount increases were again in Google Cloud, for both technical and sales roles including
the impact of the Looker acquisition which closed in December.
Operating income was $9.3 billion, up 13% year-over-year, for an operating margin of 20%.
Other Income & Expense, was $1.4 billion, which primarily reflects an increase in the market
value of certain publicly traded equities, as well as a non-cash gain from a Verily transaction.
We provide more detail on the line items within OI&E in our earnings press release.
Our effective tax rate was 0.3% for the fourth quarter and was 13% for the full year. The fourth
quarter ETR reflects the impact of discrete items, including the resolution of multi-year audits.
As you have seen in prior years, ETR can vary on a quarterly basis.
Net income was $10.7 billion and earnings per diluted share were $15.35.
Turning now to Capex and operating cash flow. Cash Capex for the quarter was $6.0 billion,
which I will discuss in the Google segment results. Operating Cash Flow was $14.4 billion with
Free Cash Flow of $8.4 billion. We ended the quarter with Cash & Marketable Securities of
approximately $120 billion.
Let me now turn to our segment financial results.
Starting with the Google segment, Revenues were $45.8 billion, up 17% year-over-year and
this, of course, is on a GAAP or floating FX basis.
Google search and other advertising revenues were $27.2 billion in the quarter, up 17%
year-over-year reflecting ongoing momentum in mobile and desktop.
YouTube advertising revenues were $4.7 billion, up 31% year-on-year, driven by substantial
growth in Direct Response and ongoing healthy growth in Brand advertising which remains the
largest component.
Network advertising revenues were $6.0 billion, up 8% year-on-year, led by growth in Google
Ad Manager.
Turning to Google Cloud, including GCP and G Suite, revenues were $2.6 billion for the fourth
quarter, up 53% year-over-year, driven by significant growth at GCP and ongoing strong growth
at G Suite.
The growth rate of GCP was meaningfully higher than that of Cloud overall. GCP growth was
led by our Infrastructure offerings and our Data and Analytics platform. We also saw strong
uptake of our multi-Cloud Anthos offering.
Ongoing growth in G Suite continued to reflect growth in both SMB and Enterprise segments
and both seat count and average revenue per seat.
6
The Other Revenues line now consists of Google Play, followed by Hardware and YouTube’s
non-advertising services, mainly its subscription offerings, YouTube Premium, YouTube Music
and YouTube TV.
In the fourth quarter, Other Revenues were $5.3 billion, up 10% year-over-year, primarily driven
by growth in YouTube and Play, offset by declines in Hardware. YouTube’s contribution to Other
Revenues benefited from subscriber growth across its various offerings. Within Play, app
revenues had strong growth, driven by an increase in the number of active buyers.
Total traffic acquisition costs were $8.5 billion, or 22% of total advertising revenues, and up 14%
year-over-year.
Total TAC as a percentage of Total Advertising Revenues was down year-over-year, reflecting
once again a favorable revenue mix shift from Network to Google Properties.
Google Operating income was $11.5 billion, up 20% versus last year, and the operating margin
was 25%.
Google Accrued Capex for the quarter was $6.6 billion, reflecting investments in data centers,
followed by servers and office facilities.
Moving on to the performance of Other Bets.
For the full year 2019, revenues were $659 million, up 11% vs. 2018, primarily generated by
Fiber and Verily.
Operating Loss for Other Bets was $4.8 billion for the full year 2019, versus an operating loss of
$3.4 billion in 2018.
Let me conclude with a few observations on the quarter and our longer-term outlook.
Based on the strength of the US dollar to date relative to the first quarter of last year, we expect
continued FX headwinds again in the first quarter of 2020.
With our expanded revenue disclosures this quarter, I’ll talk about the revenue and investment
outlook for each of these newly disclosed component parts.
First, with respect to Search and other advertising, although we don’t report Search revenues
on a fixed FX basis, the delta between fixed & floating growth rates at the Alphabet level is a
good proxy for the effect on Search revenues, or a headwind of approximately 2 percentage
points in 2019.
At our scale, we are pleased with our rate of growth for 2019 and see ample opportunity going
forward. What’s exciting for us as we look ahead at Search and other Google properties, is the
ongoing opportunity to support users and advertisers with new ads experiences and improved
measurement.
Second, with respect to YouTube advertising, at a year on year growth rate of more than 30% in
7
the fourth quarter, we’re pleased with the ongoing strength and opportunity at YouTube. We see
substantial continuing opportunity in direct response as well as with brand advertisers.
As Sundar shared earlier, the non-advertising services at YouTube, mainly from subscriptions,
reached a $3 billion revenue run rate in the fourth quarter. We continue to invest across
YouTube to grow over the long-term.
In the ad-supported portion of YouTube, we pay out a majority of revenues to our creators,
reflected in our content acquisition costs. On top of that there are other expenses, including
infrastructure and networking costs, as well as the costs of our content responsibility efforts to
keep YouTube safe for users, creators and advertisers.
We’re also investing meaningfully to grow our subscriptions, which have higher content
acquisition cost ratios.
Turning next to Google Cloud, we are very confident that there is an enormous opportunity here
that plays to our core strengths.
We’re pleased with the growth trajectory of GCP -- which we see in customer momentum, the
growing size of the average contract and of course, revenues. The traction we’re having with
large customers who are making multi-year commitments with us is reflected in our backlog,
which ended the year at $11.4 billion, substantially all of which relates to Google Cloud.
Given our position as a challenger, we’re investing aggressively, focused on building out our
go-to-market capabilities, executing against our product roadmap and extending the global
footprint of our infrastructure, focused on 21 markets and 6 industries.
In terms of Hardware, as Sundar noted in his opening remarks, we remain focused on the
long-term opportunity with ambient computing.
We believe our strengths in AI and software give us an advantage in providing seamless
experiences to users wherever they are across multiple surfaces.
We have been investing heavily in developing our capabilities in hardware engineering, as well
as building out supply and physical distribution chains and we’ve created a multi-billion dollar
revenue business in the past three years.
We’re looking forward to our acquisition of Fitbit, which will add strong capabilities in Wearables
and advance our vision of ambient computing for the Android ecosystem.
As we look at the near term product roadmap, we continue to execute at a measured pace.
In Other Bets, we are sharpening our focus on the metrics and milestones against which capital
allocation is determined and we continue to assess where external capital is additive to
governance and execution.
I’ll now turn to the investments we are making in headcount and in capex to support the growth
opportunities we see across Alphabet.
8
With respect to headcount, in 2019, Alphabet headcount grew by 20%, reflecting investment in
key areas such as Cloud. Overall, we expect the growth rate of headcount to be slightly higher
in 2020 due to the combined impact of investment in priority areas, plus the decision to move
certain vendor functions in-house, as well as from the planned impact of the Fitbit acquisition.
On SBC, as a reminder, our full year equity refresh grants are made to employees during the
first quarter of 2020 and you will see the step-up in our first quarter results.
In terms of Capex, in 2020, we intend to increase our investment in both Technical
Infrastructure and office facilities vs. 2019.
Within Technical Infrastructure, the investments in particular support ongoing demand for
Machine Learning across our business, as well as for Cloud, Search, Ads and YouTube.
Relative to 2019, we anticipate relatively more spend on servers than on data center
construction.
At this scale of investment, we remain very focused on driving efficiency through fleet
optimization and tight management of our supply chain.
Finally, on capital returns, in the fourth quarter, we repurchased $6.1 billion of shares, which
was more than double the amount of repurchase in the fourth quarter of 2018. As of year end,
we had $21 billion remaining in the program and are focused on executing on the remaining
authorization at a pace that is at least consistent with what you saw in the fourth quarter.
In conclusion, we remain very confident about the opportunities across Alphabet and in our
ability to continue to deliver at the steady pace we have shown.
Sundar and I will now take your questions.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. As a reminder, to ask a question, you will need to press star
and then 1 on your telephone. To withdraw your question, please press the pound key.
To prevent any background noise, we ask that you please mute your line once your question
has been stated.
And our first question comes from Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs. Your line is now open.
Heather Bellini (Goldman Sachs): Hi. Thank you very much, Sundar and Ruth. And I guess
-- I'm sure we're going to hear this a million times tonight. But thank you so much for the
enhanced disclosure. I think this is the best Google call -- or Alphabet call I've been on since I
covered the company. So thank you, again. You’ve given us a lot of stuff here.
I just wanted to focus a little bit on GCP and the comments that you made. Either if you want to
think about this for Google Cloud collectively or just for GCP, just given the revenue run rate
that you're at, how do we think about the gross margin profile of this business? Is it fair to look
at some of the other Cloud players when they were disclosing similar run rates to get a sense of
what their gross margins were? Or is there a reason why your business might look slightly
9
different? Thank you so much again.
Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google: Thank you for those
comments.
So, first and foremost, we're obviously really pleased with the momentum here. GCP had
fantastic revenue momentum in the fourth quarter and, as we noted, is growing at a
meaningfully higher pace than Google Cloud overall.
In terms of your margin question, you know, look, I think our view is obviously the competitive
dynamics in the Cloud market are very different today. We are investing aggressively, given the
opportunity which I tried to make clear in opening comments.
Given the opportunity we see and the momentum we're having, we've accelerated our
investment in our go-to-market team. And as we've talked about before, we've set a goal to
triple the size of the sales force. We're also focused on building out our product roadmap and
extending the global footprint of our infrastructure.
And I’ll leave the forecasting to you.
Heather Bellini (Goldman Sachs): Thank you.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Eric Sheridan from UBS.
Your line is now open.
Eric Sheridan (UBS): Thanks so much. Maybe two parts, if I can. Sundar, for you first. A lot
of innovation the company put on display over the past year. Ruth talked in her sort of forward
commentary section about sustainability of growth and outperformance going forward. What
are you most excited about when you see the company trying to align what improves consumer
utility along with what continues to drive growth in the various segments of the business? That
would be number one. And, two, Ruth, maybe for you, you had talked about variability of
revenue last quarter going into Q4. Unless I missed it, I don't think you used the same word
again in Q4. What were you expecting in terms of variability in Q4? And any color you could
give on how that played out or how we should be thinking about variability of revenue going
forward? Thanks so much.
Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google: Eric, I think overall I
presume you mean across everything we do. And if that's the case -- I mean, the trends we are
seeing -- and you -- we have been investing on it for a while, but applying it and actually driving
use cases to users. So, for example, using AI to dramatically improve natural language
processing to make 10% of our Search results better is a kind of opportunity I'm excited by.
When I look at -- we do see a lot of commercial experiences across our properties, be it Search
or YouTube, and the opportunity to create a better experience there and, hence, bring more
value to our users. That's something which we see as a big opportunity.
10
And across our businesses, be it YouTube, Cloud, Play, or Hardware, in addition to Search, we
are seeing strength in a lot of these areas. And we share a common technological approach
across all of them. And so that gives us a synergistic way to approach these areas as well.
Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google: And then on your second
question, at our scale, we're pleased with the rate of growth in 2019 here in Search and our Ads
business overall. We do see ample opportunity ahead.
When we talk about variability of revenue, the way we've talked about it in the past very much
holds true, which is we're -- we don't manage for any particular quarter. We manage focused
on what's in the best -- best for users and with a lot of testing that goes around it.
And so really the point is there will be variability. And we're focused on the continued long-term
opportunity, and we do see that opportunity -- the Ads opportunity to be significant. Apart from
the secular shift to digital, we continue to be very focused on the benefit from better
measurement, better ad delivery, better user experience. Our view is that all helps grow the
addressable market, but there will be variability over time because we are very focused on
what's in the right long-term interest.
Eric Sheridan (UBS): Thank you.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Doug Anmuth from JP
Morgan. Your line is now open.
Doug Anmuth (JP Morgan): Great. Thanks for taking the questions. One for Sundar and
one for Ruth. Sundar, first, just hoping you could talk more about Google Cloud. Great to see
the $10 billion run rate. Just curious if you can help gauge the progress over the past year.
Where do you think the biggest areas of differentiation lie in an increasingly competitive space?
And then, Ruth, can you just give some of your latest thoughts on balancing growth and
profitability across the Google segment and Other Bets? And as you enter this year, do you
see additional opportunities to drive increased profitability without impacting the long-term
potential of the businesses? Thanks.
Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google: Doug, on Cloud, I think
maybe a few thoughts on some of the progress we made last year and talk about the
differentiation, which you asked about as well.
Definitely, under Thomas's leadership, I think we have clearly focused on six industry verticals
across 21 markets, so doubling down on those efforts, bringing in a lot of new products and
compliance certifications, so effectively expanding the TAM which we serve.
Ruth mentioned the team is on track to triple our sales force in three years, including bringing in
a number of senior strategic hires and supplementing it with the channel partnership program.
11
I think the progress I've seen in our customer focus with our customer success organization and
the contracting framework have all been great progress for us.
Overall, every time we are in, especially one of these larger deals, they are effectively looking
for a technology partner. So differentiation is not just what we bring to table in terms of Cloud,
where we have differentiated capabilities, but in many cases it's what we bring as Google, so if
you take an area like healthcare, all the investments we are making in healthcare across
Google and in some cases Alphabet. If you look at Sabre, the partnership we can bring to them
across our experience working in travel verticals as well.
So I think -- and over time, I also think the AI-based industry-specific solutions we are working
on will end up being a differentiating factor as well.
Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google: And in terms of your second
question, investing for growth and how we balance growth and profitability, the approach to
capital allocation and the pace of investing continues to be guided by the same three drivers
that we've talked about previously. First, and most important, is investing to support the
long-term earnings growth and the opportunities that we see there.
Second, we do remain focused on optimizing investments within each product area.
And then, third, as we talked about on prior calls, is investing to support operational excellence.
And that includes things like driving efficiencies in our technical infrastructure, which I spoke
about.
When we look at the biggest investment areas within Google, we -- as we've talked about
already on this call -- continue to be focused on investing to support the growth that we see. It
starts with Search, while also investing to build new businesses. And we've talked about a
couple of them already today. Cloud is clearly an area where we're investing aggressively.
In Hardware, we've been investing heavily by developing our capabilities in hardware
engineering, as well as building out supply and physical distribution chains.
And then in YouTube, as I mentioned in opening comments, we do continue to build out our
subscription services. It's still in the early days there, and we're making a sizable investment to
build it out, taking a long-term view here.
So we are leaning into investing for long-term growth. That's been a core principle here and
remains such, while looking at where can we optimize within portfolios and where can
operational efficiencies be additive.
Doug Anmuth (JP Morgan): Great. Thank you, both.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Brian Nowak from
Morgan Stanley. Your line is now open.
12
Brian Nowak (Morgan Stanley): Thanks for taking my question. I have two. Sundar, I
thought your 2020 focal points were really helpful, creating the most helpful products for
everyone and then the most trusted experience for users. I was curious to kind of focus in
those comments on payments and YouTube. You've had a lot of payment strategies over the
last couple years. So talk about what types of investments or products you think you need to
really remove friction and drive better payment adoption. And then on the YouTube side, if you
sort of look at how people are using YouTube now from an engagement perspective, what types
of changes do you foresee you need to make in order to really make it a more helpful product to
drive engagement even higher on the YouTube platform? Thanks.
Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google: Brian, thanks.
On the payments side, clearly, I spoke earlier about the kind of experiences people see across
our properties, including people do come with an intent to discover, learn and commercially
engage as well. And when they're looking to transact, payments ends up playing a critical role.
So the less friction you have, it tends to work better. So we have been really focused on doing
that and getting more of our users set up in the right state.
We've had a lot of traction with our payments product over the past 18 months. We had a
tremendously successful launch in India from which we learned a lot of features, and we're
bringing that and we're revamping our payments products globally. And so I'm excited about
that rollout, which is coming up in 2020. I think that will make the experience better.
On the YouTube side, I guess your question is about how are users engaging with the product.
Overall, all our user metrics are very strong. They're global in nature. And increasingly we see
newer verticals beginning to grow as well. So YouTube is working horizontally well at scale.
And for us it's making sure as an ecosystem it works better so that the content there, the
experiences there are improving.
We take our content responsibility work seriously, which makes more content creators engage
and makes it a more valuable product for advertisers as well.
But also supplementing the content you see there with other types of accessorizing things, be it
merchandising, ticket sales. When we make it contextually relevant, what we have done in
Search and Search Ads over time, if we can bring that to YouTube and we see an opportunity, I
think that sets us up well for the long-term there.
Brian Nowak (Morgan Stanley): Great, thanks.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Brent Thill from Jefferies.
Your line is now open.
Brent Thill (Jefferies): Thanks. Ruth, in North America, was there anything that was
abnormally unusual? Facebook had cited some weakness in North America. It looks like your
13
North America number was relatively weak versus the last four years. Was there any anomaly
that we should be aware of? Thank you.
Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google: Thanks for that.
So the regional breakdown also reflects product mix within regions. The U.S. year-on-year
growth rate does reflect a decline in Hardware revenues relative to what was a fairly strong
Hardware revenue growth rate in 4Q'18. And not much more to call out than that.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Stephen Ju from Credit
Suisse. Your line is now open.
Stephen Ju (Credit Suisse): Thank you. So, Sundar, I guess some of the more cross-product
line synergies are showing up in an integrated software and hardware effort with stuff like the
Pixel. But you've come up through the ranks at Google, so you are undoubtedly pretty sensitive
to the various interests across various teams. But we're wondering what you may be looking to
do to break down, I guess, what might have been more of a siloed effort in Google's history.
Thanks.
Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google: You know, I think -- I
spoke about execution at scale and so for us that means you have these product areas which
are focused on their users. But we are setting up teams which cut across all these areas and
make sure they can bring the synergies and work at scale.
So last year we set up a core infrastructure team, which looks at things like how does the user
journey work across. What is a shared infrastructure engineers can use so that we don't
reinvent the wheel in multiple areas? How can we commonly deploy AI across all these
products? So I think that's been a good example of bringing teams together.
Another big area where we invested like that to break down silos is our partnerships. We set up
a global partnerships team. And our ability to bring a common Google perspective to our big
global partners, it's helped us strike many new partnerships. I mentioned Activision Blizzard
just as an example. And they work and they are very synergistic with Cloud as well, to my point
earlier. When people engage with us on Cloud, they're looking for -- they're interested in a
bigger digital transformation across the board.
Google Assistant is a great example of, because we are focused on the user, and the
experience cuts across several of our product areas -- has been a great mechanism by which
we can break down silos as well.
But it's a great question, and I spend a lot of time on it.
Stephen Ju (Credit Suisse): Thank you.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Dan Salmon from BMO
14
Capital Markets. Your line is now open.
Dan Salmon (BMO): Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. I had two questions, one clarifying, one
for Ruth, and then maybe a big-picture one for Sundar. Ruth, you distinguished between the
growth of brand advertising and direct response on YouTube. Those comments were very
clear. I just wanted to follow up and ask you how you make that distinction between brand and
direct response. Is it a different pricing model? Is it the presence of an ad revenue share with a
creator or both? I’d just be curious on that distinction. And then to Sundar, the big-picture one,
we have heard others in the ecosystem talk about headwinds from targeting growing. Certainly
there are regulatory changes that also apply to you. You've made some changes to various
Google advertising platforms; and, of course, you're an owner of two of the largest, most
important platforms in Chrome and the Android operating system. I could ask you a billion
things on that last one. But what I'd really like to ask is the big-picture question: If we roll up
these sort of things for your total advertising business, how important are changes here to your
top-line growth? Are you seeing notable headwinds from these types of changes in the
ecosystem as well? Thanks.
Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google: So on the first one, we have,
again, this quarter talked about brand and direct response. And as we've talked about in prior
quarters, brand is growing at a healthy pace and remains the largest component of YouTube
Ads. Direct response is growing -- continues to grow at a very substantial growth.
The distinction here is the formats for -- in direct response, we're letting brands insert a tailored
call to action in a video ad, such as signing up for a newsletter or scheduling an appointment or
downloading an app or booking a trip, things of those sort. That's why it's the direct response
category.
Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google: And on the broader
questions about headwinds, it's something we always need to take a look at. We try to stay
focused on users and our partners, and we realize for these things to scale you need to make
sure the ecosystem is working well.
And so we are engaged in these issues, and we anticipate and structurally work on them early
on. So it's how we broadly approach these things. And so there's nothing notable to call out,
other than there will be continued changes in these ecosystems, and our ability to anticipate
and adapt is key to the years ahead.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Justin Post from Bank of
America Merrill Lynch. Your line is now open.
Justin Post (Bank of America Merrill Lynch): Great. Thank you. I'd like to ask a couple of
bigger-picture things on the new disclosures. So, first, on YouTube monetization, assuming you
have about 2 billion users, it's about $7 or $8 per user. Just wondering how you feel about that
monetization level, given all the usage you're seeing there. And is there significant room to
raise that when you compare it to other social networks? And then secondly on the cloud
15
backlog, very strong number, $11.4, versus our IaaS/PaaS revenue rates. Just wondering
about how strong the new deals have been that you've signed the last six months. Sounds like
really good traction there. And then the profitability of these deals, how you feel about that.
Thank you.
Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google: On the question around
YouTube, I do think there is a lot of opportunity ahead. You're right, it's a platform working at
scale.
I think Ruth spoke a little bit about brand and direct response. I think direct response is a huge
growth area for us. And increasingly, I think when you look at the fact that people are
consuming a lot of goods and services as part of their experience in YouTube, how can we
create better commerce experiences also is a big opportunity for us.
So looking across, I think there is more room -- significantly more room over the mid- to
long-term on monetization levels. And so I think we see that as a big opportunity and are
investing for it.
On Cloud, definitely, we are increasingly doing much larger deals. And these deals can
sometimes span beyond Cloud as well, and they can touch many areas. So as an example, if
you're an automotive company, we can be talking to you across Cloud, Android Auto, in some
cases Waymo, and they all happen to be strong platform partners on the advertising side as
well. So these are large deals, and we do want to build these in a sustainable way so that we
can serve the partner well. And so profitability has been something we're very focused on as
well.
Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google: And just to add a little more to
that, the $11.4 billion backlog number is -- for us we view it as a way to quantify the traction that
we're having. And as you know well, in the Enterprise space, these tend to grow over time and
profitability as such comes across the cohorts.
However, the point that we were trying to make and have made a couple of times here on the
call is that we are investing aggressively in Cloud overall, given the opportunity that we see and
the momentum we're having, and we'll continue to do so.
Justin Post (Bank of America Merrill Lynch): Thank you.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Youssef Squali from
Suntrust. Your line is now open.
Youssef Squali (SunTrust): Okay. Great. Thank you. Two quick ones. First, Ruth, has the
shortened holiday season had much of an impact on your Search business in North America?
And then, Sundar, as you talk about automation machine learning, AI, how much of advertisers'
Search spend is now on auto bidding? And how do you think Smart Bidding is affecting
spending growth and pricing? Thank you.
16
Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google: So on the holiday shopping
season, there's really nothing to highlight there. What we find is there are seasonal puts and
takes in any given period. So really nothing to note.
Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google: I don't have specific
numbers to add here. But effectively we do see significant traction in these areas, and
advertisers are leveraging the features we have -- we are bringing it here, be it Smart Bidding,
auto bidding. There's tremendous traction with our advertisers here.
Youssef Squali (SunTrust): Thank you.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Kevin Rippey from
Evercore. Your line is now open.
Kevin Rippey (Evercore ISI): Hi. Thanks for taking the question. This is primarily for Sundar.
As you think about the risk profile of some of your businesses like Waymo, like Verily in
healthcare. How do you manage those risks which likely -- in a scenario where autonomous
cars have some accident or something like that, having those in-house and the perhaps brand
damage that could do to Google versus what you could do if those were entirely separate
enterprises? I know they are all held under the Alphabet umbrella, but just sort of big picture,
how you think about managing that risk over time? Thank you.
Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google: Thanks, Kevin.
We are -- as I spoke earlier in the remarks, part of the reason we are making sure we are
investing in the proper governance structures, so that we don't try to scale as a management
across these important areas. Some of these are -- have regulatory aspects to it.
We are -- for some of these Bets as well -- and Verily is a great example -- we've brought in
outside investors -- people with expertise, and setting up proper board structures and
governance for these.
So I think those all help, and we'll continue to evaluate these on a periodic basis and bring that
rigor and discipline.
But I do think Alphabet gives us a more flexible framework, if you will, to both have the
independence when we need, but where we can have a common, shared synergies like our AI
investments, bring that to bear as well.
Kevin Rippey (Evercore ISI): Thanks.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Mark Mahaney from
RBC. Your line is now open.
17
Benjamin Wheeler (RBC): Hi. This is Ben on for Mark. Thanks for taking the question. Ruth,
I just kind of want to double click on something you said before, in terms of Other Bets, kind of
like a sharpening focus on the asset -- the allocation there. Was that kind of -- is that kind of
signaling more of the same, or is that kind of potentially maybe prioritizing investments more
towards, like, share buybacks and stuff like that as opposed to -- like basically I'm trying to ask:
Should we expect greater rationalization in the Other Bets segment going forward, or is it more
of the same? Thanks a lot.
Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google: So what I was saying is that
when we look at the Other Bets and execution, we've talked over time about measuring them
against specific metrics and milestones, operating business, technology, financial performance,
and we -- and we look at that as we calibrate the pace of investment, the approach to
investments. And we're continuing to do that.
We're putting a sharper focus on, as Sundar indicated, looking at -- where does it make sense
to work with external capital as we did with Verily as an example.
But the bigger point is, we continue to invest for the long-term. And when we look at our capital
return approach, it's very consistent with what we've talked about previously. The primary use
of capital continues to be to support long-term growth in Google and in Other Bets, and then it's
about strategic investments and on top of that return of capital to shareholders.
Benjamin Wheeler (RBC): Thank you.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our next question comes from Ross Sandler from
Barclays. Your line is now open.
Ross Sandler (Barclays): Hi. Yeah, two questions. The Google segment margin looked
really strong in the fourth quarter. I think this is the first time that mix shift actually helped you
guys from a margin perspective. So, Ruth, can you just talk about how much of that margin
increase year-on-year was from the Hardware business dropping off versus improving
elsewhere? And then as you move forward, you mentioned that headcount is going to
accelerate in 2020. So is this an investment year, in your view, or just kind of more of the
steady kind of increase? And then the second question, on YouTube, a lot of discussion here
about direct response impact and the opportunity there. What percent of AdWords advertisers
are buying Search-only versus buying Search and YouTube at this stage? And it looks like from
your new disclosure that YouTube decelerated a little bit in the fourth quarter. Any color on
what's driving that relative to the full year '19 growth rate? Thank you.
Ruth Porat, Chief Financial Officer of Alphabet and Google: Okay. So taking the first part
of that, in terms of the operating margin in the fourth quarter, there were a number of discrete
items in the fourth quarter last year 2018. So that did result in a favorable Google op inc
year-on-year comparison for this year. And as you said, the other cost of sales does reflect
lower expenses related to Hardware in Q4 in particular versus last year.
18
But I think the main point to leave you with is that we do intend to continue to invest
aggressively to support growth in the areas that we have already talked about quite a bit on this
call, in Search and Cloud and Hardware and in YouTube.
In terms of headcount, I tried to break it out in my closing comments that it starts with those
areas, putting headcount behind the areas where we're investing for the long-term. And then
we have a couple of additional factors that are somewhat expected to boost the year-on-year
growth rate. One is bringing some support in-house that's opex neutral. And the other is the
Fitbit acquisition.
In terms of the third part of your question, I'm just trying to recall it, the -- in terms of the mix, I'm
not sure there's much to add there.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And our final question comes from the line of Colin
Sebastian from Baird. Your line is now open.
Colin Sebastian (Baird): Thank you. I guess first, just given the focus and new leadership
team in Commerce, was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the opportunity you
see for innovation there at the transactional part of the funnel. And then as a quick follow-up,
on the acceleration in GCP, beyond the size of the deals, were there particular product areas
like BigQuery or something else worth calling out that might have inflected to drive that
acceleration? Thank you.
Sundar Pichai, Chief Executive Officer of Alphabet and Google: Great. On Commerce, I'm
really excited Bill Ready is here. He brings a lot of experience. And you mentioned the
transactional part of the funnel, and I think it's an area where he brings a lot of experience,
given his prior work.
But we definitely see opportunity to improve in the overall user experience, in terms of how we
present our results, the visual nature of it, making that experience more delightful. And then
people are interested in something, how do you make it more seamless to complete the
transaction and bringing in deep partnerships with merchants and retailers to making that
happen. So excited about the opportunity there. And that's where we are investing.
On GCP, we did see -- it's been a lot to do with bringing to bear all the resources we have and
engaging while on these deals. And the execution there has been great. And it's definitely --
we see strong traction in data analytics. And so our strength there as a company is definitely
contributing significantly, as well as our overall leadership in AI.
Colin Sebastian (Baird): Thank you.
Candice (Operator): Thank you. And that concludes our question and answer session for
today. I'd like to turn the conference back over to Ellen West for any further remarks.
Ellen West, VP Investor Relations: Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. We look forward
19
to speaking with you again on our first quarter 2020 conference call. Thank you and have a
good evening.
Candice (Operator): Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank
you for participating and you may now disconnect.
20