1
Marriott International, Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2020
Earnings Conference Call Transcript1
February 18, 2021
Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for standing by, and welcome to Marriott 
International's Fourth Quarter 2020 Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. I 
will now turn the call over to Jackie Burka McConagha, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations. 
Please go ahead.
Jackie Burka: Good morning, everyone. We are all truly heartbroken by the recent unexpected 
passing of our President and CEO, Arne Sorenson. He was an exceptional, visionary leader but 
more importantly, an exceptional human being. He will be deeply missed. As you are aware, 
Arne decided to reduce his schedule to fully focus on his health earlier this month. In consultation 
with the Board, Arne asked Stephanie Linnartz, Group President of Consumer Operations, 
Technology and Emerging Businesses, and Tony Capuano, Group President of Global 
Development, Design and Operations Services, two long-time members of our leadership team, 
to jointly oversee the company’s day-to-day operations. Stephanie and Tony will continue in this 
capacity until our Board appoints a new President and CEO, which is expected to occur in the 
next two weeks.
Stephanie and Tony are joining us on our call this morning. As usual, we have Leeny Oberg, our 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Betsy Dahm, our Vice President, Investor 
Relations, with us as well. 
I will remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are 
considered forward-looking statements under federal securities laws. These statements are 
subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, as described in our SEC filings, which could cause 
future results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by our comments. 
Statements in our comments and the press release we issued earlier today are effective only 
today and will not be updated as actual events unfold. Please also note that, unless otherwise 
stated, our RevPAR and occupancy comments reflect systemwide, constant currency, year-overyear changes for comparable hotels and include hotels temporarily closed due to COVID-19. You 
can find our earnings release and reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures referred to 
in our remarks today on our investor relations website. And now I will turn the call over to Leeny. 
Leeny Oberg: Thank you, Jackie, and good morning. Like all of you, my heart is very heavy at 
Arne’s passing. I feel incredibly fortunate to have worked with such a wonderful and talented 
leader and to count Arne as a good friend. So many of you have reached out to us with your 
1 Not a verbatim transcript; extraneous material omitted and edited for clarity and misstatements.
2
condolences for his family and for Marriott and have shared your fond memories of him, and we 
have been comforted by your kind words. 
Stephanie, Tony and I wanted to share a few stories with you about Arne as well this morning. In 
the hospitality business, work inherently includes a lot of travel. Most days when Arne was on 
the road, he would lead an early morning group run around the hotel’s neighborhood with as 
many associates as were interested. As a fellow runner, I would join the crew and watch Arne 
somehow find a way to spend time with every runner in the group. He’d run ahead with the 
quick runners and then run back to the walkers and find a way to connect with each and every 
person. He’d ask them about their families, their roles at Marriott, and their points of view about 
their markets. The run would be over at 6:30 and he would then move on to a full day of meetings 
and at least five more hotel tours. You could tell he fed on these connections with people and 
that he cared about them deeply. I have learned so much from him and I will miss him 
tremendously. 
We are all committed to honoring our incredible leader by building on his legacy, and we, of 
course, want to update you on our business this morning as we move the company forward. 
Today we will cover our usual earnings call topics, with Stephanie focusing on the customer and 
demand side of our business and Tony discussing our rooms growth and development trends. I’ll 
cover our financial results and liquidity. Given the uncertainty around the pace of vaccinations 
and therefore demand recovery, we will not be providing earnings guidance today. We will, 
however, share what we can about our outlook for 2021 in a few key areas. We’ll plan to take 
your questions after our prepared remarks. 
And now I’ll turn it over to Stephanie.
Stephanie Linnartz: Thank you, Leeny, and good morning. This week, we lost a wonderful friend 
and mentor. Arne was an incredible leader, both for Marriott and the industry. And he was fun,
in a competitive way. Like Leeny, I also remember the countless times we ran together and he 
would always beat me. Always. But what I will remember the most about Arne was his humility, 
his lack of ego and his passion for developing others. Arne and I attended The World Economic 
Forum in Davos together for the past six years. The first year I attended, I went to everything
with Arne – taking it all in and learning so much from all of his interactions. The second year we 
went, pretty much as soon as we arrived, he pushed me out of the nest, so to speak. He 
encouraged me to schedule my own meetings and do my own media interviews. He believed I 
was ready and in typical Arne fashion, he empowered me to grow. He knew it was best for me 
and for the company. That’s what true leadership is – believing in your team and helping your 
teammates believe in themselves. I am honored to have worked with him, and we are all 
committed to building on his legacy. I know Arne would want us to talk about business so let me 
start us off. 
COVID-19 has impacted our business to an extent we never imagined, making 2020 by far the 
most challenging year in our company’s history. Full year worldwide RevPAR declined 60 percent,
with average occupancy of just over 35 percent compared to 73 percent for full year 2019. In 
3
2020, occupancy and year-over-year RevPAR changes showed steady improvement from the 
trough in April through the summer and into the early fall. However, with spikes in COVID cases 
in many markets around the world, we saw the global pace of recovery flatten in the fourth 
quarter and in the first few weeks of 2021. Currently over 94 percent of our hotels are open. 
Recovery trajectories to date have varied greatly by region. Mainland China, where there has 
generally been a sense that the virus is under control, has led the recovery and strongly
exemplifiesthe resiliency of demand. Occupancy reached 60 percent in July and remained above
that level through the end of 2020. Fourth quarter RevPAR in mainland China was only down 12 
percent year-over-year. We saw additional proof points of the ability for demand to recover 
quickly in other areas as well during the fourth quarter, including the Maldives and Dubai. 
Occupancy in both markets jumped to over 60 percent in December after their governments 
eased travel entry restrictions. 
In the fourth quarter many countries around the world reinstituted strict temporary limitations
on traveling and gathering to combat rising virus cases. Demand in the U.S. was clearly sensitive 
to spikes in COVID cases and government travel advisories, as we saw during the traditionally 
travel heavy holiday period from Thanksgiving through New Year’s. Many cities in Europe also 
shut down. Similarly, in China, we have recently seen several markets essentially on lockdown in 
January and February for several weeks at a time in order to fight the spread of the virus, leading 
to a meaningful drop in occupancy in these markets. Overall occupancy in mainland China year 
to date has fallen to an average of around 40 percent. The good news is that once these 
temporary shutdowns are lifted, we have seen demand return quickly. For example, occupancy 
in Chengdu and Qingdao recently jumped from around 20 percent to over 60 percent in just two 
weeks after their local governments announced the virus outbreaks were under control and 
removed travel restrictions. 
Our worldwide occupancy and year-over-year RevPAR decline in January were roughly the same 
as we saw in December. Looking ahead to the rest of 2021, booking windows remain very short, 
and there is still a large amount of uncertainty. While vaccines are slowly rolling out, the pace is 
too uncertain to be able to predict when occupancy will move meaningfully higher. But as the 
year progresses, assuming wider distribution of effective vaccines, we are optimistic that the 
pace of recovery will pick up speed and accelerate throughout the year.
In the U.S. and Canada, we are encouraged to see some small green shoots of increased demand 
for corporate and leisure transient bookings, as well as in group lead volume. While still down 
meaningfully year over year, transient booking pace and visits to our direct booking sites have 
been improving recently. Occupancy over Presidents’ Day weekend was the strongest we have 
had for a long weekend since the beginning of the pandemic, led by leisure demand, and we are 
also starting to see a bit of momentum behind special corporate bookings. 
Group revenue pace in the U.S. and Canada for 2021 is also still down significantly compared to 
group revenue pace for 2020 at the same time last year, though the declines are less severe for
the second half of the year. In January we had a very strong month for group bookings in 2022 
4
and beyond. Additionally, this business was booked at average daily rates 11 percent higher than 
business booked in January 2020 for stays in 2021 and beyond. These are encouraging signs that 
there is strong demand for travel in future years once real progress has been made in containing 
the virus. 
As we think about marketing in this environment, our teams continue to analyze the latest
consumer trends to help shape our recovery strategy. We are keenly focused on personalization 
and localization, on capturing more leisure as well as “bleisure” travel as the lines between work 
and home blur, and on increasingly leveraging our digital direct channels and, in particular, our 
Marriott Bonvoy app. We recently released our updated, redesigned Bonvoy app with the goal 
of better meeting the travel shopping needs of today’s leisure traveler.
The power of the Bonvoy platform has become even more evident during the pandemic, as many 
of our more than 147 million members have continued to interact with us in ways other than
staying in our hotels. Our Marriott Bonvoy credit card holders have remained particularly 
engaged. Global credit card spending on our cards for 2020 was down only 16 percent year-overyear, in marked contrast to the steeper decline in RevPAR. And while not material from a 
financial perspective, one of the most significant expanded offerings to members recently has 
been our whole home rental platform, Homes and Villas by Marriott International, or HVMI. We 
grew the number of units on the platform from around 2,000 at launch less than two years ago
to approximately 25,000 today. And we saw increased demand from our Marriott Bonvoy 
members, with over 90 percent of HVMI room nights in 2020 booked by members. 
We continue to focus on driving demand to our hotels and on engaging with our members, with 
creative content and special offers including our Escape to Luxury and Bonvoy Escapes 
promotions. Additionally, early last year we extended elite members’ status through early 2022,
and we recently credited their accounts with another deposit of elite night credits to give them 
a head start toward elite status in 2022. 
Before I turn the call over to Tony, I want to thank our incredible team of associates around the 
world who have shown true dedication and resilience throughout these challenging times. Tony?
Tony Capuano: Thank you, Stephanie, and good morning. Arne was a remarkable person. I’m 
proud to call him a friend and mentor. One of my favorite trips with him sums up how truly 
special and unique he really was. After we acquired Starwood in 2016, Arne wanted his senior 
leadership team to do an eight-day whirlwind trip around the world. He wanted to visit as many 
properties as we could to welcome our new associates and show them that the Marriott “people 
first” culture was real. And he wanted each of us there with him. As we toured property after 
property, Arne made a point to meet as many people as possible, to shake every hand and to 
look each person he met in the eye. He was so sincere and genuine. He also made sure to spend 
time with his leadership team outside of these meetings. In particular, I remember one overnight
flight to the Middle East. Towards morning, Arne woke us all up and brought us to the lounge in 
the back of the plane so we could just spend time together and enjoy each other’s company. This 
was classic Arne. He wanted to build a cohesive team that, while not afraid of some spirited 
5
debate, truly liked and respected each other. And it worked. Our jobs are infinitely easier 
because we are all rowing in the same direction. 
Now, being the humble person that he was, I think Arne would say that we need to move on to 
the business. So, let me now talk about our rooms growth. In 2020, we added nearly 63,000 
rooms worldwide, for rooms growth of 4.6 percent on a gross basis. Room openings in the year 
were impacted by slower construction timelines and supply chain issues as well as some owners 
temporarily waiting to open their hotels due to COVID-19. Asia Pacific was the one region where 
we opened more rooms in 2020 than we did in 2019, adding over 18,000 rooms, with gross rooms 
growth of over 8 percent versus year end 2019. In China, we recently opened our 50th hotel in 
Shanghai, the JW Marriott Shanghai Fengxian, a phenomenal accomplishment, as our 
international growth continues to strengthen. 
On a net basis, including deletions of 1.5 percent, our global distribution grew by 3.1 percent year
over year. Deletions were generally in-line with the average levels we’ve seen over the last three
years, despite a number of hotels exiting our system for COVID-19 related reasons. While 
signings for full year 2020 were not as robust as we had expected at the beginning of the year, 
our overall pipeline continues to lead the industry, totaling over 498,000 rooms at year end. We 
also benefited from continued momentum in our residential branding business, and had another 
strong year for residential signings, a testament to the power of our brands. 
For the full year 2021, assuming progress is made in containing the virus, we expect gross rooms 
growth to accelerate to approximately 6 percent. While we have seen some delayed construction 
starts and could continue to see some delays in openings, 46 percent of our pipeline is already 
under construction. Additionally, we anticipate benefitting from the backlog of openings that 
were pushed from 2020 into this year.
We also expect to see a meaningful impact from conversions this year, as owners and their 
lenders seek the incremental top and bottom line benefits from being part of the Marriott 
system. We are extremely pleased with our recently announced conversion deal in CALA that is 
expected to add 19 resorts and nearly 7,000 rooms to our all-inclusive portfolio. Our biggest deal 
yet in CALA, these hotels fit perfectly with our focus on leisure, currently the strongest segment 
of demand. And while they were not in our year end pipeline, these properties are all anticipated 
to join our system during 2021.
Now let’s shift to our 2021 outlook for net rooms growth. Not including the approximate 100 
basis points one-time headwind from the 89 Service Properties Trust, or SVC, mostly limited 
service hotels that are leaving our system by the end of March, we expect deletions of 1.5 to 2 
percent. That’s slightly higher than we have experienced recently due to the potential for more 
COVID-19 related exits. Coupled with our gross rooms growth expectation, we expect net rooms 
growth of roughly 3 to 3.5 percent, including the exiting SVC rooms. We have already received
interest from multiple owners about new deals in those markets and look forward to the 
opportunity to replace many of the first-generation limited-service SVC hotels with newer 
product. 
6
A key component of our demand recovery strategy is remaining keenly focused on the health and 
safety of our guests and associates. We first introduced our heightened cleanliness standards in 
April of last year. Since then, we have been increasingly leveraging contactless technologies such 
as mobile and web check-in, mobile key, and mobile chat to reimagine the guest stay experience 
for this environment. Last month we began rolling out additional health protocol options for 
group meetings at certain properties, including onsite temperature checks and providing for 
COVID testing capabilities.
We have also remained focused on working closely with our owner and franchisee community to 
help them navigate these challenging times and have taken many steps to significantly lower 
their costs in this environment. These steps include waiving FF&E contributions for most hotels, 
with lender consent, reducing certain fixed charges for programs and services and extending the
delay on renovations. We are also working with hotels on payment plans when necessary, and 
we are very pleased that the vast majority of our hotels are paying their bills. 
I also wanted to acknowledge our associates this morning. They have exemplified the Marriott 
culture throughout the pandemic, whether it’s looking after first responders, prepping meals for 
those in need, or hosting blood drives at our hotels. They are a remarkable team and we could 
not be more proud. I will now turn the call back over to Leeny to talk about our fourth quarter 
financials in more detail. 
Leeny Oberg: Thank you, Tony.
In the fourth quarter of 2020, worldwide RevPAR declined 64 percent, with occupancy of 35 
percent. As Stephanie noted, mainland China continued to lead the recovery. Leisure remains
the strongest driver of demand in mainland China, and in the fourth quarter, stays in the leisure
segment were up double digits year over year for the second quarter in a row. Business transient 
and group demand in the region also continued to rebound well in the fourth quarter, and we 
have been pleased to see this evidence of pent-up demand across all travel segments. In fact, 
group stays comprised around 20 percent of overall room nights in the fourth quarter, back in
line with 2019’s distribution. 
Demand in the rest of Asia Pacific also continued to improve in the fourth quarter, with
occupancy reaching 35 percent, up 10 percentage points from the third quarter, primarily driven 
by domestic leisure travel in Australia, South Korea and Japan as well as economic reopening 
efforts in countries like the Maldives and India. 
In the U.S. & Canada, leisure and drive to destinations remained the strongest markets 
throughout the fourth quarter. RevPAR declined 65 percent in the quarter, in-line with the yearover-year third quarter decline, with occupancy of 35 percent, just below third quarter’s level of 
37 percent. The seasonal decline in occupancy that typically happens during the fourth quarter 
was less pronounced in 2020, given the overall lower level of business travel.
7
Trends in EMEA were mixed. Fourth quarter occupancy in the Middle East and Africa reached 36 
percent, an 11-percentage point improvement from the third quarter, reflecting strong domestic 
leisure demand in many major markets in the Middle East. The recovery in Europe took a step 
back in the last few months of 2020, as most countries reimposed restrictions after major second 
waves of the virus. During the fourth quarter, roughly one-third of our hotels in Europe were 
temporarily closed, and occupancy fell to 15 percent. 
In CALA, around 20 percent of hotels were closed during the fourth quarter. Resort properties, 
particularly in Mexico, drove an improvement in occupancy to 24 percent in the region, up from 
15 percent in the third quarter. 
With global RevPAR down 64 percent, our fourth quarter gross fee revenues totaled $423 million, 
a decline of 57 percent versus the year ago quarter, largely in line with the year-over-year decline 
we saw in the third quarter. 
Over 60 percent of the $44 million of fourth quarter IMFs were earned in Asia Pacific, of which 
three-quarters were earned in Greater China. Over 95 percent of our hotels in Greater China had 
positive gross operating profit in the fourth quarter, with over 90 percent generating positive 
profits for the full year. These results reflect the strong rebound in demand when the virus is 
under better control and our ability to help our owners control costs. 
Within franchise fees, our non-RevPAR-related franchise fees continued to be resilient, totaling 
$133 million in the fourth quarter, down 15 percent from the year ago quarter, with credit card 
branding fees down 18 percent. 
Fourth quarter G&A improved by 31 percent year-over-year, reflecting our significant cost 
reduction efforts. In the fourth quarter our total income tax provision was a benefit of $150
million, primarily due to the favorable resolution of pre-acquisition Starwood tax audits. 
We reported fourth quarter Adjusted EBITDA of $317 million, down 65 percent versus the fourth 
quarter of last year, essentially the same decline as in the third quarter.
I will now turn to cash burn, as we have described on prior calls. Our monthly cash burn rate was
only slightly negative in the fourth quarter, even with RevPAR down 64 percent. The impact of 
the company’s $130 million 401(k) match payment in October and higher cash interest due to 
the timing of payments were partially offset by continued strong receivables collection efforts 
and robust loyalty cash flows.
We have been pleased with the strength of our cash generation in 2020 in light of the dramatic 
reduction in revenues. Our full year financials show net cash provided by operating activities of 
$1.6 billion, which included the one-time $920 million of proceeds from our amended co-brand 
credit card agreements. Subtracting out the $920 million as well as all investment spending, we 
generated positive operating cash flow – a strong performance in a year when RevPAR was down 
60 percent. These results show the true power of our asset light business model and are a 
8
testament to our company’s ability to quickly and effectively adapt to a significant and rapid 
change in demand.
Loyalty was a key piece of the equation, generating over $500 million of net cash flow in 2020
after being a net user of cash in 2019. This year’s positive cash generation from loyalty is on top 
of our credit card related fees included in EBITDA as well as the $920 million of cash received 
from our amended co-brand credit card agreements. The loyalty program benefitted from strong 
cash inflows from our credit card programs given the resilience of consumer credit card spending, 
while the loyalty program’s operating costs and redemption expenses were down significantly. 
Redemption expenses were much lower than usual in terms of both volume of nights and the 
rate paid to hotels for redemptions given the low occupancy environment. 
At the end of the fourth quarter, our net liquidity was approximately $4.4 billion after the 
paydown of over $600 million of debt during the quarter. The company’s net liquidity represents
roughly $800 million in available cash balances plus $3.6 billion undrawn on our revolver. We 
believe our liquidity position and resilient cash flow from operations comfortably position us to 
meet our short- and long-term obligations. 
I also want to briefly discuss the $243 million fourth quarter charge related to the Sheraton Grand 
Chicago put. Shortly after the Starwood deal closed, we granted the hotel owner a one-time right 
to put the leasehold interest to Marriott in 2022 for $300 million in cash. Given the current 
environment, we have determined the put is likely to be exercised, so we increased our liability. 
We have the right to defer the closing on the put until late 2024. 
Moving on to full year 2021, while we won’t be giving RevPAR or earnings guidance, I’ll provide 
a bit of color on certain items where we do have some visibility.
Starting with the top line, at current RevPAR levels, for full year 2021, we expect the sensitivity 
of a one-point change in RevPAR compared to 2019 RevPAR on our fees could be between $35
and $40 million per year. Please note that given the nominal level of RevPAR in 2020, the impact 
of a one percentage point change in 2021 RevPAR compared to 2020 RevPAR could be more like
$15 to 20 million. As we saw throughout 2020, the relationship is not linear given the variability 
of IMFs and the inclusion of non-RevPAR related franchise fees as well. In order for us to start 
earning IMFs in the U.S. and other markets where IMFs stand aside to owner priorities, we will 
need to see substantial improvement in RevPAR levels. We anticipate that the majority of IMFs 
in 2021 will again be earned in international markets. We expect our non-RevPAR-related fees 
to remain resilient and show strong year-over-year growth in 2021. 
We expect G&A to total $775 to $800 million in 2021. Note that the cash component of G&A will 
be lower than this range given non-cash stock compensation. Interest expense is anticipated to 
be roughly $430 million for the full year. 
Turning to several other major items that will impact cash flow, our cash taxes are expected to 
be $275 to $300 million for full year 2021. Investment spending excluding amounts expected to 
9
be reimbursed over time is anticipated to total $375 to $450 million for the full year. We 
anticipate another $200 million of investment spending that is expected to be reimbursed over 
time, for total investment spending of $575 to $650 million, as compared to $375 million in 2020. 
Approximately $220 million of the total spending in 2021 is for maintenance capex and our new 
headquarters. Total investment spending includes capital and technology expenditures, loan 
advances, contract acquisition costs, and other investing activities.
We expect cash flows from the loyalty program to be roughly neutral in 2021, even after the 
reduced payments we will receive from the co-brand credit card companies that effectively repay 
roughly one-third of the total $920 million received in 2020. 
In closing, while the timing of a full recovery is unpredictable, we are optimistic that we will see 
notable progress over the course of this year. We have seen real evidence of the pent-up demand 
for travel, and we look forward to welcoming more and more guests to our hotels.
We will now open the line for questions. 
QUESTION AND ANSWER SESSION:
Shaun Kelley - BofA Securities: I guess, I'd just like to start by offering my most heartfelt 
condolences to the Sorenson and Marriott family and team regarding Arne's passing. I think we 
all appreciate the stories and memories that everyone shared on the call, and we're all better 
people for having gotten to spend time with him. So, he will be warmly remembered, and greatly 
missed by all of us.
Leeny Oberg: Thank you, Shaun.
Shaun Kelley - BofA Securities: If I could turn attention maybe to some of the comments – and 
appreciate all the color that the team has put together this morning. I think maybe a good place 
to start would be to refer to some of Stephanie's remarks around some of the green shoots that 
she alluded to and that we're starting to see in some of the travel environment. So Stephanie, if 
possible, I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on some of your comments around 
the group booking position as we maybe move across the year, if you could help to give us a little 
bit more on that? And then specifically, the rate commentary, you mentioned the up 11 percent. 
If you could help us unpack that a little bit? I think that's highly encouraging and a little different 
than we might expect to see in a different hotel environment or different cycle.
Stephanie Linnartz: Sure, of course. So, as it relates to our group business, we are encouraged 
to see some really positive trends. As I mentioned in the prepared remarks that the -- on end of 
the fourth quarter of 2020, our group pace for 2021, it was down negative 57 percent. But the 
second half of the year was down just 25 percent to 30 percent. We're also, on the group front, 
seeing some positive trends as it relates to group cancels. They've really slowed for the second 
half of 2021, and they are at normal levels for 2022 plus.
10
We're also seeing some great trends on lead volume. While it's certainly behind 2019, it's 
improving. As a matter of fact, over the last 45 days, lead volume has increased 20 to 30 
percentage points. So, a significant improvement from what we experienced in the fourth quarter 
of 2020.
The other thing I'd note on the group from -- we're starting to see a pickup in what I'd call more 
normal types of groups. So as an example, we're starting to see some incentive meetings book in 
the fourth quarter of this year.
And to your question about rate, yes, January was not only a strong booking month, which was 
terrific. Actually, the best month we've had in a couple of years, but the rate was up for futures, 
11 percent. And I should note, most of those groups that were booked into the future years at 
those higher rates were in-house groups versus citywides. We haven't quite seen citywide 
bookings come back yet.
So, I think that the story on the group front just underscores the point that there will be a return 
to meetings and group business. It may be slower than we would like but we're seeing the 
demand. And as you can imagine, Shaun, we're talking to our customers all the time, meeting 
planners, our top accounts. And they all want to get back out on the road and travel.
We're also seeing, in China, some quite positive things on the group front. As a matter of fact, 
the bookings in China, group bookings, were up to 20 percent of our room nights, again, which 
was encouraging. China is a great story. It shows that there's pent-up demand for travel. Six 
weeks after this virus was announced in China, people started booking room nights again. It
started with leisure but then quickly towards as the year moved on, moved to both business 
travel and group. And of course, much of it -- most of it was domestic, but still strong demand. 
So, we're very encouraged as to what we're seeing on the group front.
Joseph Greff – JP Morgan Chase & Co.: I'd like to offer my condolences as well. Arne was 
obviously a talented executive, and everybody respected him for what he's done over the years 
at Marriott and for the lodging industry. But I remember him as just being a good man and how 
he treated everybody so respectfully and something to aspire to for everybody else. So, I know 
it's a big loss for you guys. So, I just wanted to mention that.
So, my question is for you, Tony. I was hoping on the gross rooms outlook commentary for this 
year, if you can go through the composition of the gross rooms. How much of it is conversions? 
How much of it is new construction? And of the new construction, I guess, how much of it is preCOVID vintage versus any limited-service new construction that maybe think about it as 
commencing since March of last year? And then as you think about investment spend for the 
balance of what's in the pipeline, ex the 2021 gross rooms openings, do you think that accelerates 
in 2022 and beyond relative to what you're spending this year?
11
Tony Capuano: Great. Well, first of all, thank you for your kind sentiments, most appreciated. I 
think as we think about 2021 openings, obviously, we've indicated in our prepared remarks, an 
acceleration to about 6 percent gross openings. And to state the obvious, there's more limited 
visibility than we've had into the markets pre-COVID. But there's a number of factors, I think, that 
give us some measure of comfort that support our guidance. I think, number one, we've got 
about 230,000 rooms under construction around the world as we sit here today. You also heard 
us talk a little bit about the Sunwing all-inclusive project, adding 7,000 rooms. That gives us 
almost 100 basis points of growth in gross openings in 2021.
To your point, there were a number of hotels under construction last year that had been targeted 
for 2020 openings, and they slipped principally because of COVID-related construction delays. 
And we expect a significant number of those hotels to open in 2021.
And then I think the last thing I would say is that while it's certainly early days, we're only 10 or 
11 weeks into the year, we're seeing some encouraging signs related to accelerating conversions 
activity. If you look at the fourth quarter of 2020, about 21 percent of our signings were 
conversions. And that was the highest percentage contribution from conversions that we had 
seen since the first quarter of 2019. And so, we did go back and take a look at some previous 
cycles. And in fact, at the last peak, we saw conversions spike all the way up to about 24 percent
of total signings. And I think that's quite encouraging as well.
The only other thing I would add, Joe, that also gives us some measure of comfort, we've seen 
from quarter-to-quarter since the pandemic started, a relatively steady level of rooms under 
construction. And obviously, we've shared that with you in each of the quarterly calls.
Leeny Oberg: And Joe, when you think about on the investment front, obviously, as you're 
adding more rooms on a relative basis to 2020, you'd see a little bit more investment. But when 
you think about the kind of classic typical investment either per deal or per average key in a full 
year, I would say we are not seeing any sort of meaningful increase in the amount of investment 
that were needed to put into deals. And obviously, when you look at our pipeline, for example, 
in the U.S., which is 80 percent limited service, there, typically, the investment is far less. And --
so I think while you would expect that our investment will increase a bit relative to the really low 
2020 levels, I would not expect it to see it take kind of meaningful step-up relative to the overall 
number of rooms.
Thomas Allen - Morgan Stanley: And let me just echo my condolences to Arne's family and all 
of you at Marriott. As analysts, we were lucky enough to watch him as an incredible CEO, and 
experienced him as an amazing leader, and just that he will be truly missed.
Leeny Oberg: Thank you, Thomas.
Thomas Allen - Morgan Stanley: So, for me, can we just talk about the all-inclusive strategy a bit 
more? In 2019, you announced Elegant Hotels acquisition. You've been intermittently 
announcing some more organic growth. And then there was the announcement this week or last 
12
week about -- with Sunwing. Can you just talk about what you've been learning so far as you've 
kind of built up this business?
Tony Capuano: Sure. Thank you, Thomas. I think maybe I'll talk a little bit about all-inclusive from 
a growth and a deal side. And then I might ask Stephanie to chime in from a demand and a leisure 
perspective.
On the transaction side, as we talked about when we launched into the all-inclusive space, it was 
frustrating for us to see the pace of growth in the all-inclusive space, certainly in CALA, but even 
in Southeast Asia and some of the Eastern European resort markets, and not to have a platform 
to compete for those opportunities. Since our launch, the market reaction from the development 
community has been quite significant. I think one of the things that gives us so much enthusiasm 
about the Sunwing announcement, beyond the fact that it's great, rapid increase in our footprint, 
it has accelerated the volume of inquiries we're getting about new opportunities, particularly on 
the conversion side. And Sunwing is a terrific partner for us. They have been in the all-inclusive 
space much longer than we have, and we think it is going to be a very symbiotic relationship 
where we both have a lot to teach each other.
Stephanie, maybe you can chime in a little bit on leisure demand?
Stephanie Linnartz: Yes. Sure, absolutely. We are really excited to see our offering of all-inclusive 
properties grow for our consumers. Leisure demand is very -- is the strongest segment right now. 
And it is also -- leisure is, as a segment, overall growing even faster than business travel. So, we 
see a lot of runway for continued leisure demand. What we're most excited about with our allinclusive properties is we're going to have properties across seven of our brands. Seven of our 
premium and luxury brands. And it's going to be a terrific offering, particularly for our Marriott 
Bonvoy members. It is really -- anything that makes the Marriott Bonvoy program stickier and 
more engaging is great for our business. So, whether it's growing our all-inclusive business, HVMI, 
of course, our terrific leisure properties around the world, we just see the growth of all-inclusive 
is a great proposition for our consumers.
Thomas Allen - Morgan Stanley: And then just sticking on the development front. In the past, 
you used to do about one bolt-on acquisition a year, thinking Delta, Protea, Gaylord. Is the 
current environment creating opportunities? And how do you think about kind of balancing it 
with your balance sheet?
Tony Capuano: Sure. I think there are lots of conversations. I think from where I sit, I'll be 
surprised if there is a high volume of activity because I think buyer and seller pricing expectations 
are still out of alignment. And I think there may be some distressed circumstances where 
transactions occur. But I do think that gap is significant. We'll continue to look. And if we see 
something that makes sense, we'll use the same lens that we've always applied to the evaluation 
of bolt-on acquisitions - does it fill a gap for us in terms of either geographic distribution or 
segment and are the economics compelling?
13
Also -- maybe the last fine point I would put on that, not only for individual hotel transactions, 
but for M&A transactions, the financing markets are challenging at best. And I think that will have 
some cooling effect, potentially on the volume of M&A deals you see in the market.
Stephen Grambling - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.: I also want to share my condolences to 
everyone on the call, as well as the entire Marriott and Sorenson family. We will miss Arne's 
voice, his openness and his outrageously fast response time in e-mails. So, I guess it's just another 
sign of his ability to connect with everyone.
Leeny Oberg: So true.
Stephen Grambling - Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.: So Leeny, you mentioned G&A in the $775 
million $800 million range. Can you help us think about the different levers of costs that were 
removed and how you may expect some of these to return perhaps in 2022 and beyond a more 
robust recovery? And as a related follow up, how do you think about permanent reductions in 
management costs or charge outs to owners that could also bolster margins for them and allow 
you to recapture IMFs at a lower band of RevPAR?
Leeny Oberg: Yes. Sure. So, first of all, on the corporate G&A front, when you look at these levels 
compared to the 2019 levels, you're looking at a high-teens reduction in comparison. And you do 
need to remember that both of those numbers include bad debt. And while in the long run, bad 
debt is a cash cost, it is kind of in-the-year-for-the-year, often not a cash cost because it's a 
reserve taken. And again, it's a little bit hard to predict exactly where that’ll go in 2021. And I 
think you would normally expect in this environment, it might be a little bit higher than normal 
levels. And certainly in 2019, it was not even anything to worry about. But overall, I would say, 
from a cash perspective, you would see that our cash cost on a G&A front with the $775 million 
to $800 million is -- that reduction is a bit higher than the high teens sort of number that I've 
described on the expense line.
And when I think about it going forward, Stephen, I would say a couple of things. First of all, 
obviously, I would expect that some will need to be added back as we move forward into a muchimproved picture for our industry. But I will also say that we undertook some work in 2020 that 
while extraordinarily painful and difficult, I think was a reflection that we view that it will take 
some time for the industry to recover. And we really need to put ourselves in a position where 
we could make these cost savings last a very long time, if not permanently. So, while you could 
see costs go up a bit more than inflation, I think you will see most of these savings be sustainable.
And similarly, on the hotel front, we've done a lot of work to do things that are both temporary 
and sustainable on the cost front. We've obviously done some temporary reductions in fixed 
costs at the hotel level. We've obviously done some, again, really painful work in the way of 
furloughs, et cetera. But we've also done some really innovative things around how to better 
staff the hotels, how to better get our work done, how to manage some of the programmatic 
costs that go to those hotels. And I think those, again, will be sustainable.
14
When I think about in 2021, what we've tried to do is hold on to as much of the margins that we 
had in 2019 as possible. So, while I think the hotel margins will obviously suffer from a reduction 
in revenues compared to 2019 at the hotel level. We think we have been able to save the vast 
majority of that margin decline through the work that we've done. And then obviously, as we 
move into a much more normal picture, there will be sustainable savings that allow us to get to 
a profitability point that returns back to where it was much quicker.
Smedes Rose - Citigroup Inc.: Our condolences as well regarding Arne. Just thinking about him, 
it just seems like he's always struck me as a man of such kind of grace. And it's just really sad that 
he's not with us anymore. I wanted to ask you...
Leeny Oberg: Thank you, Smedes.
Smedes Rose - Citigroup Inc.: I wanted to ask you, really just a little bit more about the 
relationship with owners who may be facing financial stress. And what, if anything, Marriott is 
doing, I guess, in terms of concessions or delayed payments or any other kinds of relief and 
whether some of those might be permanent?
Leeny Oberg: Sure. I talked the question before about some substantive work that we've done 
to try to match the cost with the revenue decline in the short term and again, try to make a bunch 
of it sustainable. But overwhelmingly, our owners are paying us. And we've had tremendous 
success in collecting our receivables. Most hotels have reopened. And obviously, amongst the 
select-service hotels, quite a few of them are actually cash flow positive. We have arranged 
payment plans for a large number of our hotels. And when you think about it typically, Smedes, 
they pay us in 30 days. And to be able to stretch that out over several months is a big help. And 
we're seeing there, again, overwhelmingly that they are making payments on those payment 
plans. And while there are obviously -- we need to get back to where there's substantial recovery 
to get them to a much better spot.
For the moment, they are hanging in there, and they are able to pay some down and work with 
us to be able to navigate through this time. But I do agree with you, we are paying incredible 
attention to our costs on property and working with the owners to try to find ways to do even 
more. And a whole lot of this depends on what the owner's particular situation is, too, in terms 
of how well capitalized, what is the debt structure and what kind of market they're in. But 
overwhelmingly, we have seen really strong performance. And the newest information about the 
PPP loan extension and expansion, as well as whatever may come from a stimulus bill, hopefully, 
will be added benefit to them as well.
Smedes Rose - Citigroup Inc.: Okay. And then I just wanted to ask you on the agreement with 
Sunwing. Did Marriott pay any upfront money for those properties to come into the system? And 
also, did the owner agree to invest any incremental capex? Or do you feel like they are kind of 
ready to go?
15
Leeny Oberg: Well, I'll take the first one, and then I'm going to turn it over to Tony for the second 
one. We would never get into specifics on a particular deal. But I can tell you that this was a very, 
very capital-light deal. I'll just leave it there.
Tony Capuano: And I think similarly, on the second half of your question, these are terrific 
physical assets. There are some modest renovation requirements, but these are pretty 
conversion-ready assets that we're excited to get into the system and start welcoming our 
Bonvoy guests.
Patrick Scholes - Truist Securities, Inc.: Certainly, our deepest condolences to both the Sorenson 
and Marriott families. Obviously, it goes without saying we will deeply miss him very much.
Question for you, you talked about 94 percent of your hotels at the end of the year open and 
probably 6 percent not open. How might you think -- or what do you internally think about the 
trajectory of re-openings? And I assume those are mostly urban top 25 hotels, correct?
Leeny Oberg: Well -- so let me help you a little bit here. Thank you, Patrick, and we appreciate 
your thoughts. So, first of all, in U.S. and Canada, we're only talking 3 percent of the hotels. So 
only 159 in all of North America. The biggest concentration is in Europe, where 34 percent of the 
hotels are closed. And then also in Caribbean and Latin America, where 11 percent of the hotels 
are closed. So, I would say there, there can be some true structural reasons why in those markets, 
government regulations, actually, in some cases, require that the hotels be closed.
So I think one of the things that we've all learned over the last year is that, in many cases, even 
down at levels of 10 to 15 percent occupancy, a hotel can be better off being open than it is 
closed, from a cash flow perspective. And we've, again, done everything we can. Most of our 
charges, as you know, are based on revenues. So that floats with the occupancy.
So I think, in general, we would, as you see things start to pick up a little bit, hopefully, as the 
vaccinations continue to progress even more, then you will start to see these remaining closed 
hotels open up.
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank: Great. Please let me add my condolences on Arne's loss. 
I'm very sad. Obviously, he was such an unfailingly kind person. So, I just want to add my 
condolences.
Leeny Oberg: Thank you, Robin.
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank: My question is on the unit growth topic. I know 
conversion's visibility is kind of more limited, maybe only within the next few months, and 
removals kind of similarly. But when we think about gross unit additions from kind of new 
construction that would happen next year in 2022, a lot of that would probably be underway or 
have to be underway already now. So, I guess -- I wonder if you could give us some thoughts on 
the growth unit additions for 2022? In other words, trying to get a feel for whether -- how much 
16
of the acceleration in gross additions in 2021 is the openings that got pushed from 2020 into 
2021? And kind of what that may look like past that, the impact of those openings sliding into 
2021?
Tony Capuano: Thank you, Robin. As I said in response to one of the earlier questions, state the 
obvious. There's a lot less visibility into the future than we had prior to the pandemic. I think 
beyond 2021, we're going to need to get a bit further into the economic recovery. We're going 
to have to see how quickly the financing markets rebound and how quickly construction starts 
begin to pick up.
As I said, we do have 230,000 rooms under construction. But it is interesting, as I talk with our 
transactors around the world, the good news is we're generally not seeing much in the way of 
fallout of under construction pipe -- projects from the pipeline. I think if there's going to be an 
impact, it will likely be further impact on the length of the construction cycle. And so, it's a little 
tough to know what that looks like in 2022. I am hopeful that in the next couple of quarters, that 
visibility will improve a little bit. But I just don't think we've got great visibility beyond 2021 at 
this point.
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank: Okay. No. That makes sense. I mean it's actually surprising 
how many rooms are under construction, very similar to what it was a year ago, and actually 
given everything that's gone on, I would have thought that new starts would have made that 
number lower, but it's fairly consistent, only a few thousand rooms different than a year ago. So 
that's why it seemed potentially encouraging for 2022. But...
Tony Capuano: We agree. That's one of the statistics we've been watching. And to your point, 
it's quite encouraging that we've seen such stability in the volume of under construction rooms 
around the world.
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank: Yes. And then just one quick follow-up. Can you give a little 
more color around the put option. It's just when we normally look at your what's added back 
restructuring -- for acquisition costs related to Starwood, obviously, that put option is a significant 
amount. So just a little bit of color around that.
Leeny Oberg: Yes. Sure, absolutely. Yes, we always say, we're overwhelmingly done with the 
integration of Starwood. And we're kind of hopeful that this is the last bit. But when we acquired 
the company, Starwood's management agreements for the Sheraton Grand Chicago and the 
Westin Times Square included very broad cross-brand territorials, which actually -- when you 
think about it, meant that for the rest of our 28 brands, we were severely limited in those areas.
So,soon after we did the deal, we entered into a settlement agreement with a hotel owner where 
basically we granted that owner a onetime right to put the leasehold interest in the hotel to 
Marriott in 2022 for $300 million in cash. Now it's worth noting that there is a ground lease 
underneath this hotel. We actually don't have to buy that. If we want to buy that land, we'll have 
17
the right to for an additional $200 million, but it is worth noting that there is a ground lease on 
the hotel as well. But this is for buying the interest in the hotel.
The other interesting part is that given the current economic conditions, we believe that the put 
is probable of being exercised. And as a result, we needed to reflect what we think is the current 
value. And obviously, all these markets are struggling, and that resulted in this charge.
The other thing that's worth noting is that we actually have the right to not actually close on the 
put until late 2024. So even though it could get put to us in 2022, we wouldn't necessarily have 
to buy it until the end of 2024. And so it's actually worth noting that also part of the impairment 
that we had in the contract, the amortization line reflects the fact that, frankly, right now, if you 
ask us, we would expect that we would defer that purchase until the end of 2024 and continue 
to manage the hotel until the end of 2024 to take into consideration the fact that we don't buy 
it until then.
The other part that I guess I'll add is that since that agreement was signed, we've actually added 
4,000 rooms in the Chicago and New York markets. So while it is painful and clearly, a direct result 
of COVID, we do think that in the broad picture, it's really important for us to be able to have the 
capability to expand our brands in those really important markets.
Robin Farley - UBS Investment Bank: And if the value of the hotel improves over the next two
years or between now and late 2024, you would reverse some of the loss, I would assume? The 
value that's being run through?
Leeny Oberg: Yes. Obviously, you've got to look at that every single quarter, and we would. But 
this will be a combination of a whole lot of different factors as we move over the next few years. 
But fundamentally, yes, you're right.
Vince Ciepiel - Cleveland Research Company: Great. I also wanted to express my sympathy to 
Arne's family and the Marriott team. He certainly will be missed.
I had a question on leisure. You mentioned the favorable trend lines there, expectations for 
outperformance in that segment for some time, meeting that demand with the all-inclusive 
offering. I wanted to dig more into your Homes & Villas. Just curious how you think you're 
progressing there? What you think about the trend lines and demand for short-term rentals as 
we live in an increasingly remote world? And how you think you're meeting the needs of those, 
around 150 million loyalty members in terms of their interest and appetite for short-term 
rentals?
Stephanie Linnartz: Great. Well, thank you, Vince, for that question. Yes, we really are excited 
about HVMI, primarily as an offering for our Marriott Bonvoy members. We launched that 
business in 2019 with about 2,000 homes as I mentioned in the prepared remarks. And the reason 
we launched the business is we were talking to our Marriott Bonvoy members and 8 out of 10 of 
them said not only -- not that they were just thinking about renting a home, but they actually had 
18
done it through another platform. So, we knew it was an offering they wanted that we didn't 
have. And we knew it would be complementary to our core hotel business.
So, we launched the business in 2019. We've grown it to 25,000 homes. There is about a couple 
of million homes in the segment in which we play in. I think it's really important when we talk 
about HVMI to make some distinction from other platform. First of all, we only have whole 
homes. We also -- it's not an open platform like some of the other players. You can't just put a 
home on there. We only work with professional housing management companies, and we have 
very, very strict standards about what type of premium and luxury homes we'll allow on the 
platform -standards around amenities, design aesthetic, service levels, safety, security, et cetera. 
So, we are very strict about which homes get on the platform.
And one of the most important things about HVMI is you can earn loyalty points and burn loyalty 
points there. Yes, I mentioned in the prepared remarks that 90 percent of our bookings are 
coming from loyalty members. Also, 30 percent of the bookings are redemptions. People 
redeeming their Marriott Bonvoy points. And we saw the business do well, particularly during 
last summer because people wanted a whole home. Forty percent of our HVMI destinations are 
actually new to Marriott. They're where we don't have hotels, and many of them are in more 
remote locations, which really was quite attractive during COVID. So, we're excited about the 
offering, and we see it as complementary to our core business and a tremendous value 
proposition for our Marriott Bonvoy members.
Dori Kesten - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC: I also want to offer my condolences. Arne was really 
one of a kind that will be sorely missed.
Leeny Oberg: Thank you, Dori.
Dori Kesten - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC: I was wondering, I guess this is for Leeny, how 
important is it for Marriott internally to return to share repurchases and/or dividends? And is 
there anything beyond your leverage target that we should be using as a timeline guide?
Leeny Oberg: No. I don't think so. I think, obviously, the stability of the marketplace will be 
important. I'm kind of assuming that we continue on the beginnings of this recovery and get to a 
much more stable place. I think we clearly have to recognize that it will take us a little while to 
get back to where our leverage ratios are where we want them to be, and we will need to be 
considering whether the market is as stable as it was from 2012 through 2019 when you think 
about the volatility of our cash flows.
But I think, broadly speaking, looking at our business model and the way we generate cash, that 
I think the fundamental strategy is still the same, which is grow absolutely the best way we can 
with really efficient use of capital, resulting in a business model that generates significant excess 
cash over and above what we need to reinvest in the business. And in that respect, we would 
look forward to returning to both modest dividend and share repurchase.
19
Dori Kesten - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC: Okay. And Stephanie, as a follow-up, if you look out 
three years, how would you expect your exposure to leisure business, transient and group to 
have shifted? Are you of the belief that it'll eventually return to the distribution that we had over 
the last few years?
Stephanie Linnartz: Yes. When we look medium, longer-term past COVID, we think there is 
robust demand for travel across all segments: leisure, business travel, group meetings. There 
could be some slight shifts here and there. But again, we -- as I mentioned, we -- when the COVID 
gets under control, we see the demand come back. And we're already -- on the business travel 
side, we're starting to see green shoots. Our special corporate bookings in January in-the-monthfor-the-month were the best that we've seen since last fall. And when we look at the bookings 
from our corporate accounts further out, we're seeing them tick up each week, particularly from 
accounting and consulting firms and technology companies.
So again, post COVID, we see robust travel demand across all segments. Again, could there be 
some shifts here and there, yes, but we're quite bullish on the overall outlook.
Chad Beynon - Macquarie Research: I'd also like to offer my condolences as well. We all learned 
so much from Arne, and he was such a kind person to all of us.
Leeny Oberg: Thank you, Chad.
Chad Beynon - Macquarie Research: Tony, somewhat of a hypothetical, but how do you think 
domestic price integrity and ADRs will play out once occupancies improve, I guess, near-term in 
the back half of 2021 and then medium-term in 2022? Obviously, this is the higher component 
of house profit in IMFs. Was there anything that you saw in China in the fourth quarter in terms 
of how pricing played out? And anything to think about this from prior cycles?
Stephanie Linnartz: Sure, Chad. I think -- this is Stephanie. I'll take that one on pricing. I mean 
pricing is really about compression, not trip purpose. And so, in normal times, we can get 
compression from leisure business. In our resorts when they are quite busy or special events. 
And our retail rates, we don't really differ between business and leisure. We do have some 
negotiated volume discounts for corporate accounts. But the key to pricing really is about 
occupancy rebounding. And right now, that's the challenge. I mean, in terms of ADR, it fell very 
steeply in April and May of last year. And that was driven by very low occupancies, and we had 
caregiver rates and the like in our hotels. But the occupancy did tick up throughout the year. Of 
course, it varies market to market. In general, last year, we saw luxury ADR hold up best with 
extended stay ADR next. And again, it really does get to compression. I think it will be interesting 
to watch this recovery. If demand comes back much more quickly than we anticipated, we may 
be able to grow ADR faster than we did coming out of the last downturn. But again, it's really 
about -- it's more about compression than it is about trip purpose.
Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the allotted time for questions and answers. 
I'll now return the call to Leeny Oberg for additional or closing comments.
20
Leeny Oberg: Thank you very much. I appreciate everybody joining this morning. We can't wait 
to see you out on the road, and thank you again so much for your kind thoughts. Take care.
--END--
Note on forward-looking statements: All statements in this document are made as of February 
18, 2021. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these statements, whether as 
a result of new information, future events or otherwise. This document contains "forwardlooking statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws, including statements related 
to the possible effects on our business of the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to contain it 
(COVID-19); travel and lodging demand; future performance of the company's hotels; cost 
savings; demand for our brands; our development pipeline, rooms growth and conversions; 
leadership changes; and similar statements concerning anticipated future events and 
expectations that are not historical facts. We caution you that these statements are not 
guarantees of future performance and are subject to numerous evolving risks and uncertainties 
that we may not be able to accurately predict or assess, including those we identify below and 
other risk factors that we identify in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including 
our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks that could 
affect forward-looking statements in this document include the duration and scope of COVID-19, 
including the availability and distribution of effective vaccines or treatments; its short and longerterm impact on the demand for travel, transient and group business, and levels of consumer 
confidence; actions governments, businesses and individuals have taken or may take in response 
to the pandemic, including limiting or banning travel and/or in-person gatherings or imposing 
occupancy or other restrictions on lodging or other facilities; the impact of the pandemic and 
actions taken in response to the pandemic on global and regional economies, travel, and 
economic activity, including the duration and magnitude of its impact on unemployment rates 
and consumer discretionary spending; the ability of our owners and franchisees to successfully 
navigate the impacts of COVID-19; the pace of recovery when the pandemic subsides or effective 
treatments or vaccines become widely available; general economic uncertainty in key global 
markets and a worsening of global economic conditions or low levels of economic growth; the 
effects of steps we and our property owners and franchisees have taken and may continue to 
take to reduce operating costs and/or enhance certain health and cleanliness protocols at our 
hotels; the impacts of our employee furloughs and reduced work week schedules, our voluntary 
transition program and our other restructuring activities; competitive conditions in the lodging 
industry; relationships with customers and property owners; the availability of capital to finance 
hotel growth and refurbishment; the extent to which we experience adverse effects from data 
security incidents; and changes in tax laws in countries in which we earn significant income. Any 
of these factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations we express 
or imply in this document.