1 
Marriott International, Inc. 
Third Quarter 2021 
Earnings Conference Call Transcript1
November 3, 2021 
Operator:   Good  day, everyone, and  welcome  to Marriott International's Third Quarter  2021 
Earnings Conference Call.  Today’s call is being recorded.  I will now turn the call over to Jackie 
Burka, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations.  
Jackie Burka:  Good morning, everyone, and welcome to Marriott’s third quarter 2021 earnings 
call.  On the call with me are Tony Capuano, our Chief Executive Officer, Leeny Oberg, our Chief 
Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Business Operations, and Betsy Dahm, our Vice 
President of Investor Relations.  We are very happy to not only be doing this call all together in 
person this morning, but to be doing it from the road at the beautiful JW Marriott Orlando Bonnet 
Creek.   
I  will  remind  everyone  that  many  of  our  comments  today  are  not  historical  facts  and  are 
considered  forward‐looking  statements  under  federal  securities  laws.   These  statements  are 
subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, as described in our SEC filings, which could cause  
future  results  to  differ  materially  from  those  expressed  in  or  implied  by  our  comments.  
Statements in our comments and  the press  release we issued earlier  today are effective only 
today and will not be updated as actual events unfold.  Please also note that, unless otherwise 
stated, our RevPAR, occupancy and Average Daily Rate comments reflect systemwide, constant 
currency results for comparable hotels and include hotels temporarily closed due to COVID‐19.  
RevPAR, occupancy, and ADR comparisons between 2021 and 2019 reflect properties that are 
defined as comparable as of September 30, 2021, even if they were not open and operating for 
the full year 2019 or they did not meet all the other criteria for comparable in 2019.  You can find 
our earnings release and reconciliations of all non‐GAAP  financial measures referred  to in our 
remarks today on our investor relations website.  And now I will turn the call over to Tony.   
Tony Capuano:  Thank you, Jackie, and good morning, everyone.   
Over the past few months, I have been fortunate to have spent the majority of my time back on 
the road.  I have been speaking with our associates, meeting with customers, attending industry 
conferences, and engaging with our owners and franchisees, as I have been doing this week here 
in Orlando.  My travels have taken me to Europe, the Caribbean and Latin America, and many 
parts of the country, here in the U.S.  It has been wonderful to see so many people traveling again 
and to witness firsthand the resilience of global travel.  
1
 Not a verbatim transcript; extraneous material omitted and edited for clarity and misstatements. 
2 
This resilience was clearly evident during the third quarter.  The strong global RevPAR recovery 
momentum we experienced in the spring continued into the summer, thanks to sustained robust 
leisure demand and impressive average daily rates.  July worldwide RevPAR reached a new peak 
since the beginning of the pandemic, down just 23 percent compared to 2019 levels.  Occupancy 
in July rose to 61 percent, an increase of over 500 basis points from June, while ADR was down 
less than 3 percent versus July of 2019.  In August, global demand softened a bit, primarily as a 
result the impact of the Delta variant and the subsequent delay in many companies’ return to 
the office.  However, demand stabilized in September before rising once again in October.   
Recovery trajectories remain varied by region and have been uneven.  RevPAR in all our regions 
except  for Greater China improved in the third quarter compared to the second quarter.  The 
recovery in Greater China has been choppier given its zero COVID‐19 policy.  Mainland China was 
the  first market to see RevPAR return to pre‐pandemic levels a quarter ago, and RevPAR rose 
again in July, to 11 percent above July of 2019.  But demand then fell significantly in August after 
the government imposed strict lockdowns in response to small regional COVID outbreaks, leading 
to a meaningful decline in RevPAR for the month.  Demand then swiftly rose again in September 
as soon as those restrictions were lifted. 
In the U.S. and Canada, third quarter RevPAR performance improved meaningfully, to down less 
than 20 percent compared to the same quarter 2019.  Results were driven by elevated leisure 
demand and ADR nearly at 2019 levels.  Total occupancy reached 67 percent in July, retrenched 
a bit in August, and held steady in September before rising again in October.   
Third  quarter  RevPAR  in  the  U.S.  and  Canada  improved  across  all  brand  tiers  and  all  market 
segments – primary, secondary and tertiary.  While primary markets are still the most challenged, 
these markets saw the largest RevPAR gains during the quarter, as demand in gateway cities like 
New York continued to rise.   
Group  demand  accelerated  nicely  in  the  U.S.  and  Canada  in  the  third  quarter.    Group  room 
revenues for the quarter were down 46 percent versus the third quarter of 2019, a significant 
improvement  compared  to  the  second  quarter’s  decline  of  76  percent  versus  the  same  time 
period  in  2019.    Group  bookings  have  also  been  increasing.    In‐the‐year‐for‐the‐year  U.S. 
managed group bookings beat 2019 levels for each of the last five months through October, as 
event booking windows have shortened during the pandemic.  Most importantly, group ADR has 
continued to rise, and for full year 2022 is currently pacing nearly 4 percent above pre‐pandemic 
levels.   
In the U.S. and Canada, special corporate was the segment most impacted by the Delta variant 
during  the  quarter,  given  the  delay  in  return‐to‐office  timelines.    As  a  reminder,  the  special 
corporate segment represents business transient customers who book at pre‐negotiated rates.  
We estimate this segment has been accounting for roughly half of business transient room nights, 
although we can’t know with certainty the trip purpose for transient bookings other than special 
corporate.    The  special  corporate  segment  therefore  gives  us  the  best  indication  of  business 
demand trends.   
3 
Special corporate bookings showed steady recovery each month this year until we saw a slight 
pullback in the back half of the third quarter.  The gradual upward trajectory returned in October, 
with bookings versus 2019 growing each week during the month.  Special corporate bookings are 
currently down less than 40 percent compared to the same time frame in 2019.   
From conversations with our corporate customers, we know that many of them, especially those 
with more  client‐facing  jobs,  are  increasingly eager  to  get  back  on  the  road.   We expect  the 
recovery in business transient to gradually continue, as more workers return to the office, guest 
visitation policies are relaxed, and greater numbers of employees are permitted to travel again.  
We also expect  the  traditional business  trip  to continue  to evolve, with a blurring of the lines 
between business and leisure travel.   
In  the Middle East and Africa,  third  quarter RevPAR  came in less  than  20  percent  below  pre‐
pandemic levels, led by strong performance in the UAE and Qatar.  RevPAR topped third quarter 
2019 levels in Qatar thanks to preparations for the 2022 World Cup, while RevPAR in the UAE 
was nearly even with 2019, largely benefiting from staycations.   
Europe’s recovery took another large step forward in the third quarter.  Occupancy doubled in 
one quarter to reach 47 percent, as many key international borders re‐opened, entry restrictions 
eased, and almost all hotels were once again open.   
The Caribbean and Latin America posted  third quarter RevPAR  18 percent below  2019 levels.  
Demand  for our  resort properties  remained  robust, particularly in  the Caribbean and Mexico.  
Urban  destinations,  while  slowly  improving,  still  lagged.    Historically,  the  third  quarter  is  the 
region’s softest quarter seasonally.  Yet, many resorts saw record occupancy and ADRs, and our 
luxury ADR in the region for the quarter was ahead of 2019 levels by 32 percent.   
The recovery in Asia Pacific excluding China advanced more slowly in the third quarter.  Results 
were mixed across countries, though India saw a meaningful improvement in demand as COVID 
caseloads  dropped  and  restrictions  lifted.    Encouragingly,  many  countries  in  the  region  have 
recently  taken  significant  steps  to  re‐open  travel,  such  as  announcing  new  vaccinated  travel 
lanes. Demand in October accelerated nicely as a result.   
Developer  sentiment continues  to improve, in  step with  the global  recovery, and  the pace of 
signings has picked up meaningfully this year.  At the end of September, our pipeline stood at 
nearly 477,000 rooms.  Gross room openings through the third quarter of this year exceeded the 
first nine months of 2019 by 25 percent and surpassed the same period last year by almost 50 
percent.  Deletions from the pipeline remain at the low end of our long‐term trend.   
Conversions  remain  a  meaningful  driver  of  rooms  growth,  given  our  impressive  roster  of 
conversion‐friendly  brands and  the meaningful  top‐ and  bottom‐line  benefits associated with 
being part of the Marriott system.  We have already added more conversion rooms in the first 
nine months of this year than we did in all of 2019.  Accounting for over 30 percent of all signings 
4 
in the first nine months of this year, compared to around 15 percent of signings pre‐pandemic, 
conversions are expected to be a significant contributor to growth over the next several years.  
For the  full year, we still expect that gross rooms growth will accelerate  to around 6 percent.  
With  more  clarity  around  our  estimated  full‐year  deletions,  we  now  expect  2021  net  rooms 
growth  will  be  approximately  3.5  percent.    The  attractiveness  of  our  brands,  our  increasing 
development activity, our momentum around conversions, and our industry‐leading pipeline give 
us confidence that we will see meaningful rooms growth going forward.  We expect that over the 
next  several  years  we  will  get  back  to  our  typical mid‐single  digit  net  rooms  growth  that  we 
demonstrated  prior  to  the  pandemic.    However,  the  exact  timing  is  hard  to  predict  and  will 
depend on a host of  factors related to the global recovery, including the lending environment 
and  evolving  supply  chain  dynamics.    Supply  chain  issues  have  pushed  some  openings  and 
construction starts out a few months, but the deals continue to move forward. 
Turning to Marriott Bonvoy, global enrollments, driven by digital sign‐ups, accelerated during the 
quarter, growing the program to 157 million members as of the end of September.  We remain 
extremely  focused  on  fostering  engagement  with  our  members.    We  recently  rolled  out 
numerous successful special promotions such as our second annual Week of Wonders and the 
relaunch of Marriott Bonvoy Moments, where members can use points to gain VIP access to a 
broad variety of experiences.  Additionally, we just announced several loyalty program updates 
including status, award, and point extensions, which should further encourage members to stay 
with us as global travel rebounds.  Since the start of the pandemic, we have grown our share of 
bookings coming through our digital and other direct channels.  Over 76 percent of our global 
room nights in the first three quarters of this year were booked through our direct channels, with 
around half of these booked through our digital channels.   
In closing, I firmly believe that the long‐term recovery is on track.  The resilience of travel and 
consumers’ desire to visit our 7,900 global properties is undeniable, and I am looking ahead with 
a lot of optimism about our future.  At this point I’d like to turn the call over to Leeny.   
Leeny? 
Leeny Oberg:  Thank you, Tony.  
We  are  pleased  with  our  third  quarter  results,  which  reflect  the  continued  meaningful 
improvement in  the global  recovery.   Third  quarter worldwide  RevPAR was  down  26  percent 
compared to the same quarter in 2019, despite the impact of the Delta variant in the latter half 
of the quarter.  In comparison, global RevPAR declined 44 percent in the second quarter versus 
the same period in 2019.  
Worldwide occupancy rose to 58 percent in the third quarter, and ADR was only 4 percent below 
the third quarter of 2019.  We have been very pleased to see rate almost back at pre‐pandemic 
levels in just 20 months.  In comparison, global ADR had lagged the recovery in RevPAR in prior 
downturns, taking around five years to rebound after the 2009 recession and around four years 
5 
to recover post 9/11.  Importantly, the recovery in rate has not just been driven by customer mix.  
Our  third quarter retail, or rack, rate in the U.S and Canada was essentially  flat with  the  third 
quarter of 2019.   
Gross fee revenue reached $776 million in the third quarter.  Our non‐RevPAR related franchise 
fees were again particularly strong, totaling $173 million in the third quarter, 19 percent ahead 
of 2019 levels.  Credit card branding fees of $113 million were up 11 percent compared to the 
2019  third  quarter,  on  the  back  of  strong  new  account  acquisitions  and  robust  global  card 
spending.    Our  residential  branding  fees  also  had  another  outstanding  quarter,  totaling  $18 
million.   
Incentive management fees, or IMFs, totaled $53 million in the quarter.  Over 40 percent of IMFs 
were earned at resort properties, with IMFs from our luxury resorts around the world up almost 
30 percent compared to the third quarter of 2019.  
We were pleased  to  see positive  results  from our owned and leased portfolio in  the quarter, 
primarily due to improved performance at hotels in the U.S. and Europe.   
Third quarter G&A and other expense totaled $212 million and were impacted by compensation 
true‐ups  and  additional  legal  expenses.   We  continue  to  realize meaningful  savings  from  the 
significant  restructuring activities  undertaken last  year, and we  still expect  full  year G&A and 
other to be roughly $800 million, down 15 percent to 2019 levels.   
We  also  recorded  a  $164  million  pre‐tax  loss  on  extinguishment  of  debt  during  the  quarter 
associated with the repurchase of $1 billion of our 5.75 percent senior notes due in May 2025.  
As  part  of  our  balance  sheet  management,  we  have  focused  on  bringing  down  our  average 
interest rate, lengthening our average debt maturity, and reducing our debt balances.  Over the 
last 18 months we have reduced our outstanding net debt by $1.4 billion.   
At  the hotel level, we have significantly improved margins and lowered breakeven occupancy 
levels around the world.  In the third quarter, even with RevPAR for managed properties in the 
U.S. and Canada down 27 percent versus pre‐pandemic levels, 97 percent of our managed hotels 
in the region had positive GOP, or gross operating profit. 
We are proud of the work our teams have done in maximizing margins during the pandemic.   
We  expect  many  of  the  cost  reduction  and  productivity  enhancement  initiatives  we  have 
implemented  will  be  maintained  as  occupancies  continue  to  rise.    Given  the  current  labor 
environment, we are keeping a close eye on wage and benefit inflation as associates are hired 
back and open positions are  filled, but our cost  reduction efforts could offset  this inflation in 
future years.   
As  demand  continues  to  rise,  we  are  working  closely  with  our  owners  and  franchisees  to 
maximize hotel profitability while delivering the outstanding guest experiences our customers 
expect from our brands.  We are close to completing an extensive review of our brand standards 
6 
and  are  already  implementing  numerous  changes  intended  to  help  reduce  hotel  operating 
expenses while improving flexibility based on customer needs as occupancies rise. 
Looking  ahead,  we  are  still  not  in  a  position  to  be  able  to  give  specific  RevPAR  or  earnings 
guidance.    But  I  would  like  to  share  some  general  observations  and  provide  color  on  certain 
additional items where we do have some visibility.   
We are optimistic about the pace of global recovery as we look ahead into next year, as more 
markets  re‐open  around  the  world.    With  meaningful  continued  improvement  in  business 
transient and group demand, continued growth in leisure demand, and healthy levels of ADR, we 
expect to make substantial progress in closing the gap to 2019 RevPAR levels by the end of next 
year, assuming no major setbacks in the pandemic recovery.   
To further help your modeling for 2021, as a reminder, the fourth and the first quarters of the 
year historically have seen lower demand than the second and third quarters.  In 2019, global 
occupancy fell around 6 percentage points from the third quarter to the fourth quarter.   
Turning to fees, at current RevPAR levels we still expect the sensitivity of a one‐point change in 
full year 2021 RevPAR versus 2019 could be $35 to $40 million of  fees.  As we have seen, the 
relationship is not linear given the variability of IMFs and the inclusion of non‐RevPAR related 
franchise fees.  We expect our non‐RevPAR related fees to continue to benefit from strong credit 
card and residential branding fees.   
Interest expense is  now anticipated  to  be around  $420 million.   Full year cash  taxes are  now 
expected to be $350 to $375 million. 
Our  anticipated  full  year  cash  flow  from  the  loyalty  program  has  not  changed  from  our 
expectation a quarter ago.  We still expect it to be positive for the full year before factoring in 
the reduced payments we will receive from the credit card companies.  After factoring in these 
reduced payments, which are expected to effectively repay around one‐third of the total $920 
million we received in 2020, we continue to anticipate modestly negative cash flows from loyalty.
We  remain  focused  on  carefully  watching  capital  expenditures,  and  we  now  expect  full  year 
investment spending of $525 to $550 million, below our expectation of $575 to $625 million that 
we shared last quarter.  Total investment spending includes capital and technology expenditures, 
loan advances, contract acquisition costs, and other investing activities.  
As we think about capital allocation, retaining our investment grade credit rating remains a top 
priority.  We are making excellent progress bringing our credit ratios back in‐line as we continue 
to  generate  positive  cash  flow  and  manage  our  spending  levels.    Assuming  this  progress 
continues, we could be in a position to restart capital returns in the back half of 2022.  
We’re very enthusiastic about how our business is performing and we are happy  to now  take 
your questions.  Operator? 
7 
QUESTION AND ANSWER SESSION: 
Joseph Greff – JP Morgan Chase & Co.:  I know you don't want to necessarily talk about 2022 
with any great specificity, but I just want to get a sense of how you're thinking about the leisure 
segment as we head into next year. Obviously,  that's a segment this year where demand has 
recovered the most and pricing has been fairly inelastic and price obviously up significantly. 
Do you think leisure can maintain some sort of growth trajectory in 2022? Or do you think that 
has  to  come  down?  And  then,  obviously,  it's  more  than  compensated  by  the  growth  in  the 
transient ‐‐ the business transient segment. How are you thinking about that right now? 
Anthony Capuano:  Thanks for the question, Joe. We are ‐‐ continue to be quite bullish about 
leisure. We think there's lots more run room in terms of this leisure‐led recovery. You heard some 
of the statistics that Leeny and I shared in our prepared remarks about the performance and the 
pricing  power  that  we've  seen  in  our  resort  destinations.  And  so,  the  short  answer  is  we 
absolutely believe that leisure can continue to grow into 2022.
Leeny Oberg:  Joe, one other comment I'll make is that we've seen ‐‐ actually since 2010, we've 
seen leisure  trips grow  faster  than business  trips. And I  think with  the  reality  that  there's still 
some pent‐up demand as well as increased savings rates and, frankly, more flexibility in travel, 
that we absolutely believe that leisure can continue to grow going into 2022. 
Joseph Greff – JP Morgan Chase & Co.:  Great. And you mentioned it on the call, and you have it 
in  the  press  release  that  you  have  greater  visibility  on  deletions,  and  I  know  that  the  room 
deletions comment was really specific for this year. Can you talk about the visibility on deletions 
for next year and maybe where that trends? Obviously, I'm not looking for a gross or a net rooms 
growth  number,  but  just  how  you  see  the  visibility  on  deletions  for  2022  maybe  relative  to 
historical percentage deletion rates. 
Leeny Oberg:  Yes. No, great question. And we're in the middle of our budgeting process now, so 
I think we feel extremely solid about the numbers for 2021. It's too early to give you a specific 
number. But obviously, the one‐time bump that we had this year from the SVC portfolio, we don't 
expect to happen. And I do believe that it will fall back to more normal levels in 2022 with perhaps 
still a  tinge of COVID‐related impact, but I  think more likely to be  falling back into levels  that 
you've seen before. 
Shaun Kelley ‐ BofA Securities:  Maybe as my first, Tony, sort of ask the same question, if I could, 
but  focusing  a  little  bit  more  on  corporate  and  group.  Obviously,  we're  right  at  the  cusp  of 
probably  how  much  lead  time  you  have.  But  can  you  just  talk  a  little  bit  about  corporate 
behavior? You gave us a little color through that things are rebounding a little bit in October. But 
just what little signs do we have heading into 2022 on what I consider core business transient 
and then also just maybe on the group bookings front? 
8 
Anthony  Capuano:    Of  course.  So,  the  biggest  improvement  we  expect  or  that  we  saw  this 
quarter came from business transient, which has already picked up even a bit in October. We're 
quite encouraged. Special corporate bookings have improved each week in October when we 
compare them to 2019. 
And because you asked  for a little bit of granularity, I can  tell you  that new special corporate 
bookings in October for some of our key customer categories had some really nice growth. And 
I'll give you two examples. Accounting and consulting grew 35 percent over what we saw last 
month, and technology business grew about 31 percent versus last month. 
When I flip to group, which was the second part of your question, at the end of September, group 
revenue  was  pacing  down  around  43  percent  versus  2019.  But  we  think  we  could  see  some 
improvement from that level given the volume of last‐minute bookings, which have been quite a 
significant recent trend. In the quarter, fourth quarter, bookings in October were above October 
of 2019 by the highest percentage we've seen since the pandemic began. 
And maybe the last thing I would tell you on growth ‐‐ on group, excuse me, that is also quite 
encouraging. When we look at the group that's on the books for 2022, the ADR for that group is 
up about 3 percent, almost 4 percent, relative to the group that was on the books for 20202. 
Shaun Kelley ‐ BofA Securities:  And maybe just as my follow‐up, if I could. Could you just give us 
a little bit ‐‐ there's been more discussion in the industry than probably is normal about small and 
medium‐sized  corporates,  and  that  activity  rebounding  a  bit  faster  than  what  we've  seen  in 
maybe the larger Fortune 500 or top 50 accounts. Could you talk a little bit about that exposure 
for Marriott, if you break it down that way, or maybe the behaviors that you're seeing between 
small and medium and larger‐sized corporates? 
Anthony Capuano:  Yes, of course. Historically, we saw business transient business coming out 
of small and medium‐sized companies was about 60 percent of our business transient revenue. 
Now given that the larger businesses have been a little slower to recover during the pandemic, 
for the first three quarters of this year, we've seen about 75 percent of that revenue coming from 
small and medium accounts. 
Thomas  Allen  ‐ Morgan  Stanley:    Given  much  of  your  marketing  spend  is  done  through  the 
system fund, I'd be interested to hear just an update on where you are in your kind of marketing 
strategy  and  spend  versus  kind  of  pre‐COVID.  I  remember  back  to  early  2019,  you  did  a  big 
Bonvoy push. I'm just trying to think about what you're doing now and the potential implications 
for distribution and market share. 
2
 Year corrected. 
9 
Leeny  Oberg:    So,  you're  absolutely  right  that,  broadly  speaking,  our  marketing  spend  is  a 
function  of  the  top  line  revenue  from  our  hotels.  And  that  is  in  two  places,  Thomas.  One  is 
obviously  in  classic  sales  and  marketing  fund.  But  also,  when  you  think  about  the  revenues 
coming into our loyalty program are also driven by a combination of our credit card spend as well 
as  hotel  revenues  and  penetration  of  Bonvoy  stays  at  our  hotels.  And  so  clearly,  that  is  still 
meaningfully down from 2019, however, obviously, a whole lot better than it was in 2020. 
And I'm  sure  you've  seen  lately  that we've  done a  fabulous  new  campaign  that  has  been  on 
everywhere from airlines to sports games, et cetera, that really emphasize how special it is to be 
able to travel and to have experiences that open your mind, if you will. And so, it's been a really 
concentrated  reminder  to  the  ‐‐  to  our  consumers  of  how  special  travel  is.  And  that  new 
campaign has generated incredible response from all the different customers and media touch 
points. 
Thomas  Allen  ‐ Morgan  Stanley:    Okay.  Just  as  a  follow‐up.  Just  can  you  update  us  on  OTA 
distribution and your thoughts there? 
Leeny Oberg:  Yes, sure. It's very similar to what we've talked about before, which is that, clearly, 
the OTAs have gained share as a result of special corporate being down on a relative basis. But 
we're still seeing that our digital channels are gaining share faster than the OTAs. So, while I'd say 
that OTAs are probably now at about 14 percent of total bookings, you still remember that our 
direct channels are over 76 percent and about half of that is coming through the digital channel. 
So, we're very pleased  to see  that digital continues  to gain share very nicely. Our mobile app 
downloads have grown really well. So, the OTAs have been an important driver of business for us 
during this pandemic. But I think,  from a share perspective, we're continuing to see the same 
trends we've been seeing. 
Patrick  Scholes  ‐  Truist  Securities,  Inc.:    Hilton  has  been  pretty  vocal  about  having  daily 
housekeeping on‐demand, and I haven't heard as much from you folks. What do you think about 
that going forward, especially for your mid‐scale types of properties? 
Anthony Capuano:  Well, it's a timely question, Patrick. As I mentioned in the opening remarks, 
we've just spent two full days with a significant number of our owners and franchisees here in 
North America. As we shared with them, we continue to run a few different proofs of concept 
evaluating  how  we  strike  the  right  balance  between  guest  expectations  and  the  economic 
challenges that our owner community continues to face. We got tremendous engagement and 
input  from  that  community. And I  think we  continue  to move  towards a more  definitive and 
permanent position on housekeeping. 
Patrick Scholes ‐ Truist Securities, Inc.:  Okay. And then just a quick follow‐up question. You had 
noted eventually getting back to your mid‐single‐digit long‐term net unit growth. But  for next 
year, is it reasonable to assume that net unit growth percentages will be roughly similar to what 
they are this year? 
10 
Anthony Capuano:  It's too early to give specific expectations. Now what I can tell you is we are, 
with increasing confidence, feeling like in the midterm, we're going to get back to that mid‐single‐
digit rooms growth. But I think it will be a bit challenging next year, and it will be challenged for 
a few reasons. 
I think, number one, the continued unpredictability of the pandemic. But maybe more impactful, 
we  have  seen  some  delays  in  construction  starts,  some  of  which  have  been  direct  results  of 
interruption to the supply chain. But again, those feel like short‐term impediments. 
And in fact, it's interesting if you look at the pipeline, both in Q2 and Q3, the fallout we saw was 
the lowest we've seen in the last three years. So that would certainly suggest that, while we may 
have to struggle through a bit of these short‐term delays, it actually bolsters our confidence in 
our ability to get back to that mid‐single‐digit growth rate. 
Stephen  Grambling  ‐  Goldman  Sachs  Group,  Inc.:    I  guess,  to  follow  up  on  the  initial  2022 
expectations, what guardrails can investors think about around the more concrete expense items 
such as G&A? And should the relationship you've outlined between RevPAR and EBITDA generally 
hold as we think into future years? 
Leeny Oberg:  So sure. So, a couple of things. On the G&A front, I think, certainly, you have to 
take into consideration what's going on with wage and benefit inflation. And then, I think, as we 
get back to more kind of fully‐loaded RevPAR numbers in the system, I think you should expect 
that, for the next year, anyway, that it will be a little bit higher than just inflation as we get the 
organization back to kind of full operations. 
But again, I still think that you're looking at overall levels of G&A reflecting the significant work 
that we did in 2020 to rebuild Marriott so that it still will be meaningfully lower than the kind of 
guidance that we gave at the beginning of 2020, which was $950 million to $960 million. Similarly, 
as you asked about ‐‐ what's your other question that you asked about, Stephen? 
Stephen  Grambling  ‐  Goldman  Sachs  Group,  Inc.:  Just  as  we  think  about  the  relationship 
between RevPAR and EBITDA. 
Leeny Oberg:  Yes, for EBITDA and RevPAR. Yes, I think it will be the same, except, perhaps a little 
bit bigger as we have more and more owned, leased profits coming back as well as IMFs coming 
back. If you remember, pre‐pandemic, we were close to $50 million per point of RevPAR. We're 
obviously getting, hopefully, closer to $40 million. And that's obviously hotel‐related RevPAR. 
The non‐RevPAR will tie much more into both the residential fees as well as the credit card fees. 
But it should expand, although, I think, again, in 2022, it will still be closer to the $40 million in 
2022 and then, again, continue to grow from there. 
11 
Stephen  Grambling  ‐  Goldman  Sachs  Group,  Inc.:    And  since  you  mentioned  the  non‐hotel‐
related fees and credit card fees, I think you referenced that you'd had very strong sign‐ups. Can 
you just remind us of how a customer typically progresses once it signs up? Do you see a burst of 
spending right at sign‐up? Or is there a kind of a gradual build? And are you seeing any change in 
behavior on that? 
Leeny Oberg:  Yes, absolutely. Absolutely a gradual build, you're right. It absolutely kind of ‐‐ it 
takes a while to get going. 
Smedes Rose ‐ Citigroup Inc.:  I wanted to ask you a little bit more on the group bookings that 
you are seeing in the U.S. Is it fair to say that the sort of larger CBD, sort of more group‐oriented 
properties, are continuing to lag? Or have you seen ‐‐ are you seeing kind of any uptick there? 
And maybe any other sort of just changes in the composition of the group? 
Anthony Capuano:  Of course. Maybe I'll give you some macro observations. But before I do that, 
certainly, we're seeing really strong social group activity and expect that to continue. In terms of 
citywides, which, I think, was part of your question, it was interesting. We spent the last two days 
with many  of  our  full‐service  owners  here in  the U.S. And I  think  their  view is  they're  seeing 
softness in citywide activity in  the  first half of 2022, but are hopeful  they'll start  to see some 
pickup in the back half of next year. 
More broadly around group, you heard some of the comments I made in the prepared remarks. 
Q3 revenue is down 46 percent in group as compared to 2019, which was a big uptick compared 
to the statistics we shared with you last quarter, where we were down 76 percent versus 2019. 
The  other  statistic  I  would  share  with  you  that  I  think  is  interesting.  In‐the‐quarter‐for‐the‐
quarter bookings in October were above in‐the‐quarter‐for‐the‐quarter bookings from October 
2019 by over 30 percent, which is the highest percentage increase we've seen since the beginning 
of the pandemic. 
Smedes Rose ‐ Citigroup Inc.:  Okay. And then I was just hoping if you could talk a little bit more 
about  what  your  owners  are  seeing  on  labor  costs.  It  sounds  like  you're  sort  of  somewhat 
optimistic about the growth in IMF next year. And I'm just sort of trying to, I guess, square that 
with the fact ‐‐ I mean, we heard from one owner last night that labor is up 20 percent. I just 
wondered what your folks are seeing. 
Anthony Capuano:  Of course. So, like many other companies around the country and around 
the world, we are seeing some challenges with labor. It won't surprise you that those challenges 
are most acute in the markets where we've seen the most rapid recovery in demand. So, leisure 
destination is kind of leading the way. From our perspective, we have a multi‐pronged approach 
to try and address those issues. 
We've been doing ‐‐ we've ramped up our efforts in social and targeted marketing, highlighting 
the extraordinary opportunities  that exist at Marriott. We have, in some instances, used one‐
time sign‐on bonuses or temporary incentives. And we do still have many open positions to fill, 
12 
but we are seeing a bit of an uptick in applicant flow and have been filling jobs pretty steadily 
over the last several months. 
Leeny Oberg:    And I  would  add,  we  are  not  hearing  from  our  owners  that  it's  universally  20 
percent. There may be a couple of markets here and there where that could be happening in a 
particular situation. But broadly speaking, while it's clearly meaningfully higher than it was back 
in 2018 and 2019, I would say 20 percent is not the norm. 
And the only other thing I'll say is that, while ADR is still not back to 2019 levels, traditionally, in 
our business, we have been able to see that ADR tends to be able to hold on to inflation, that 
we've  seen  ADR  increases  that  are  at  least  inflation,  if  not  higher.  And  while,  clearly,  at  the 
moment, we're not back there yet, that should be helpful as well. 
David Katz ‐ Jefferies LLC:  I know that we have seemingly a fair amount of time to discuss this. 
But with respect to capital returns, if you could just talk about what would have to happen for 
capital returns to maybe start earlier or later, for that matter. And within the construct of those 
capital returns, any changes in how you would think about the mix of buybacks versus dividends 
and the puts and takes around those, just so we can start the conversation now, nice and early? 
Leeny  Oberg:    Sure.  So,  first  of  all,  similar  messages  to  what  you've  heard  before,  which, 
maintaining  our  investment‐grade  credit  rating  is  a  top  priority  for Marriott. We  do  want  to 
continue to get our credit ratios back to the 3 to 3.5x levels of debt‐to‐EBITDAR. We are really 
pleased with the progress that we're making in that regard. It probably happened faster than we 
might have imagined a year ago. And so, with that in mind, we are feeling increasingly confident 
that we'll be able to turn to returning capital to shareholders, perhaps with continued progress 
in the recovery in the back half of 2022. 
When we think about the mix of dividends versus share repurchases, I  think it's instructive to 
look at what we did in the Great Recession, which is that we ‐‐ as we move closer and closer to 
that 3 to 3.5x range, we reinstituted a modest, a smaller than ‐‐ smaller‐than‐it‐was‐before cash 
dividend  and  then  return  to  the  normal  level  of  cash  dividend  before  we  began  share 
repurchases. And Tony and I will be  talking about  that  to  the Board and continuing  to have a 
dialogue, but I don't think that… That's a pretty good framework for you to consider as we move 
forward. 
I think from a kind of rationale, David, I think one of the things we really like about the 3 to 3.5x 
level, for us, is the flexibility that it then gives us when we see an opportunistic investment come 
our way. And so, we do want to return to that area knowing that when those come up, we want 
to be able to take advantage of them. And in that regard, kind of reestablishing that policy and 
those levels, I think, is where we're headed. 
David Katz ‐ Jefferies LLC:  Perfect. And if I can just follow up with one just modeling detail. When 
we  look  back  historically  versus  this  year,  with  the  differential  in  cost  reimbursements  and 
revenue and costs, there are periodic positives versus negatives. And this year, it's been more of 
13 
a positive so far. Is there any sort of input you can help us with the remainder of this year and 
how that evolves into next year, just to keep our models straight? 
Leeny Oberg:  Yes, sure. I think, as a reminder, over time, that the idea is that is essentially a net 
neutral to the company, i.e., these are cost reimbursements without a profit component, and the 
timing of the revenues and the expenses can obviously vary. Just kind of to your point, as you 
look at what's happened this year, you have seen that the gap has narrowed between the net 
reimbursed revenue line, and that's really a reflection of loyalty. 
When you think about last year, far fewer redemptions were taking place. And we had lowered 
our administrative costs in the loyalty program to take into consideration the much lower RevPAR 
that we had in the system. So naturally, that has come back to a higher level this year as ‐‐ and 
redemptions have also grown meaningfully. But again, I think over time, you'll continue to see 
some variation quarter‐to‐quarter and year‐to‐year. But over time, the general direction is net 
neutral to the company. 
William Crow  ‐ Raymond  James & Associates, Inc.:  Tony, I appreciate  the comments on  the 
special  corporate‐rated  business  travel  and  the  pickup  you're  seeing  in  consulting  and 
technology, in particular. I'm curious whether the destinations have changed. As we look at the 
STR data, it's pretty barren in  some of  these bigger New York, Chicago, San Francisco. Is  that 
consistent with where your ‐‐ what you're seeing from the special corporate‐rated business? 
Leeny Oberg:  So, first of all, as we talked about, the smaller and medium‐sized business transient 
has been relatively stronger, and that, to your point, is more likely to be in secondary and tertiary 
markets. However, during Q3, we saw the best improvement in our big cities in special corporate 
that we've  seen  since  the  pandemic.  So, I  think  it  is absolutely moving  in  the  right  direction, 
including those larger cities. 
William Crow ‐ Raymond James & Associates, Inc.:  Okay. And then my follow‐up is kind of on a 
bigger‐picture basis. Should we be putting a bigger risk premium on the fee income coming out 
of China, given the changes in kind of government attitudes going on there? 
Anthony  Capuano:    Well,  how  much  time  do  we  have,  Bill?  I  think,  listen,  China  is  a  really 
important market for us. It is a dynamic and evolving market. Like anybody that's got a significant 
footprint  in  China,  we  continue  to  watch  with  great  interest  and  great  focus  the  evolving 
landscape there. 
But  when  you  look  at  the  composition  of  ownership  that  we  have,  when  you  look  at  the 
percentage of our portfolio that has whole or partial ownership by state‐owned enterprises, I 
don't think we look at it as having any really remarkably higher risk profile than we've thought 
for the last number of quarters. 
Leeny Oberg:  And one reminder, as I'm sure you know all too well, we typically do not have an 
owner's priority on our IMF there. And so, the IMFs actually behave very similarly to base fees. 
14 
Dori Kesten ‐ Wells Fargo Securities, LLC:  Based on your early ‐‐ based on early conversations 
that you're having with developers, how do you expect signings to trend over the next several 
quarters? And are there certain markets that you're having to provide additional incentives that 
you haven't historically? 
Anthony  Capuano:    Well,  as  I  mentioned  earlier,  the  pace  of  global  signings  has  picked  up 
significantly since the bottom of the trough created by the pandemic. Year‐to‐date, our signings 
are  up  about  30  percent  compared  to  where  we  were  same  time  last  year.  What  we  hear 
anecdotally  from  our  partners,  financing  for  acquisitions  and  conversions  of  existing  assets 
continues to be pretty readily available. 
Construction financing for new builds is more challenging. The construction financing that is out 
there,  as  we've  seen  in  other  more  conventional  down  markets,  tends  to  rely  heavily  on 
relationship lending, tends to rely heavily on quality of sponsorship, and tends to rely heavily on 
the quality of the brand affiliation. 
In terms of additional investment, we are not seeing any sort of remarkable spike in the use of 
the company's balance sheet. The guiding principles that have guided our deal‐making in good 
and bad markets remain intact. In instances where we see a strategic imperative or in instances 
where we think we can drive premium fees and earnings for the company, we will consider use 
of the company's balance sheet. 
Dori  Kesten  ‐  Wells  Fargo  Securities,  LLC:    And  I  may  have  missed  this,  but  what  was  the 
reasoning for the lower investment spending in 2020 ‐‐ I'm sorry, in 2021? 
Leeny Oberg:  No, that's fine. So, as we've talked about before, a couple of things. One is that we 
did talk about how some construction starts have pushed forward a little bit. And so that would 
then impact some of when the key money goes out the door. But probably more importantly and 
larger is we just really are able to refine the amount of capex that we're going to spend on system 
capex as well as the company's new headquarters building. And when you put those together, 
you get the reduction that we described today in the press release. 
Richard  Hightower  ‐  Evercore  ISI  Institutional  Equities:    Just  in  terms  of  the  development 
pipeline, again, I guess, given  that it's a little more  heavily  skewed  towards luxury and  upper 
upscale than maybe some of your peers, wondering if you could describe any differences in the 
economics  of  those  tiers,  specifically  versus  the  select  service  tiers and even  by  geography. I 
mean, are there any pockets of tightness more so than the average around construction cost, 
lending availability, et cetera, et cetera, that we should be aware of? 
Anthony Capuano:  Sure. So maybe I'll remind you, we got a question on this topic a quarter ago. 
And I think the specific question we got was, within our portfolio, in terms of the economics to 
MI or to Marriott from a fee perspective, how would a luxury hotel like a Ritz‐Carlton compare 
15 
to  a  lower‐tier  product  like  a  Fairfield  Inn?  And  the  response  we  gave  a  quarter  ago  was, 
obviously, subject to variability by geography, but it's about 10x. 
We see about 10x the fee potential in a luxury hotel that we typically achieve in a select service 
hotel.  They  are  more  complex  projects.  They  are  more  capital‐intensive  projects.  The 
complexities of getting them financed are not insignificant. But as evidenced by the volume of 
luxury and upper upscale in our portfolio, the strength of our brands, I think, command pretty 
effective ability to source debt for those projects. 
Richard Hightower  ‐ Evercore ISI Institutional Equities:  Yes, I appreciate  that. And maybe I'll 
turn it on its head for a second, but the economics to the owners as well, I mean, are there any 
key differences in that regard versus what actually impacts Marriott itself? 
Anthony Capuano:  Well, as I said, these are complex projects. You heard in Leeny's prepared 
comments some pretty extraordinary numbers about our branded residential business. And with 
increasing  frequency,  we  see  the  luxury  projects  being  developed  as mixed‐use  projects  that 
include a branded residential component. That's often critical in underwriting those projects and 
getting them financed. In leisure destinations, the premiums we've seen in luxury rates over the 
last couple of quarters have been extraordinary. 
Robin Farley ‐ UBS Investment Bank:  I want to circle back on the group booking outlook. I know 
you talked about price or rates being up 4 percent next year. I'm wondering if you could give us 
a sense of what kind of group bookings is relative to 2019. I think there's this idea that there's 
going to be a lot of pent‐up demand for it. 
But I'm wondering if that's actually translated into bookings yet? Maybe, obviously, not for Q1, 
but are there quarters in Q2, 3 or 4, where the ‐‐ what's on the books is back to 2019 levels? Or 
are groups kind of not pulling the trigger just yet? 
Anthony Capuano:  Of course. Thanks, Robin. So, if I look at 2022 in aggregate, and I look at total 
group revenue on the books at the end of this past quarter and compare that to what was on the 
books at the end of the third quarter in 2019 for 2020, we're down about 20 percent in gross 
revenue. We're down about 23 percent in total booked rooms. And as I mentioned earlier, we're 
up nearly 4 percent in ADR. 
Robin Farley ‐ UBS Investment Bank:  Okay. Great. Now that's helpful. And then just on the lower 
investment spend, and I know, Leeny, you mentioned that it was kind of refining some of the 
headquarters and systems capex. Is  there  ‐‐ is it somewhat  related  to  the  ‐‐  there's some like 
impaired contract investment in the quarter that ‐‐ was there like a significant project or maybe 
it's multiple ones that got canceled or something? Just wondering if that is related. 
Leeny Oberg:  No, not at all. 
16 
Robin Farley ‐ UBS Investment Bank:  So, what's driving the impaired contract investment in the 
quarter? 
Leeny Oberg:  Sorry, yes. No, the ‐‐ actually, it was a ‐‐ it was not a contract investment. This was 
an  initiative  for  some  international  hotels  that  we  had  begun  in  2019  related  to  operational 
improvements in some international hotels. But as a result of COVID and all that is going on in 
those hotels that it no longer makes sense to carry forward with that. So, the investment that we 
had put on our books to date needed to be written off. It was actually a program initiative of the 
company for the hotels. It was not related to a hotel contract.
Robin Farley ‐ UBS Investment Bank:  So, it was like you had kind of made loans to some hotel 
owners as an incentive, and then kind of now ‐‐ that the loans are written off. Is that roughly how 
it works? 
Leeny Oberg:  No. No, actually, as you know, very often, we have programs that we do for our 
hotels that they reimburse us for. And in some cases, we actually develop the programs and, over 
time, the hotel owners pay us back. And in this case, we had begun work on the program and 
invested some funds to develop the program and decided, once COVID came, it no longer made 
sense to implement that program at the hotels and have them repay us over time, so we wrote 
off the investment. 
Robin Farley ‐ UBS Investment Bank:  Okay. Great. That's helpful. I don't know if ‐‐ one final. So, 
you made a comment when talking about priority of using your cash flow kind of reinstating a 
smaller dividend then repo then larger dividend. And you mentioned the investment‐grade rating 
to kind of take advantage of opportunities ‐‐ to be opportunistic, I think, was the expression you 
used. Is  there anything acquisition‐wise  that you  think about where you would be looking  for 
opportunities? I don't know if you can characterize anything, and then that's it for me. 
Anthony  Capuano:    I  would  say  that  the  approach  we've  taken  to  evaluating  those  sorts  of 
opportunities  remains  intact.  If  you  look  at  our  track  record  in  this  area,  we  don't  feel  any 
particular pressure to do acquisitions, simply for the sake of scale. If we see a gap in our portfolio, 
whether that be a brand gap or a tier gap that we think represents significant growth opportunity 
or a significant gap in our geographic  footprint, that can be solved the way we did with AC in 
Spain  or  Protea  in  South  Africa,  we  would  certainly  take  a  look  at  that.  But  I  think  Leeny's 
comment is really around our capital philosophy to ensure we are in a good position should one 
of those opportunities present itself. 
Chad Beynon ‐ Macquarie Research:  I wanted to ask about the continued recovery in rates given 
how strong it's been. Anthony, you talked about the outlook for group, but I'm wondering if you 
could kind of touch on maybe some of the differences in leisure, BT and group? Have you guys 
been able to test and learn maybe how high you can push pricing? Or is this tough to do without 
kind of full compression nights. 
17 
Anthony Capuano:  Well, there's a lot in that question, I think, that the good news, what we've 
seen  through  the  last  couple  of  quarters,  is  the  ability  of  the  leisure  segment  to  create 
compression. And the creation of that compression, almost irrespective of which segment drives 
the compression, is driving really terrific pricing power. 
I  think when you look at our  retail  rates across  the portfolio, we are essentially back  to 2019 
levels. And that's another statistical illustration of the strength of our pricing power. And what's 
really  encouraging  about  that  is  that  we're  achieving  that  pricing  power,  albeit  at  lower 
occupancy levels than we were experiencing in 2019. 
Chad Beynon ‐ Macquarie Research:  Okay. Great. And then a quick follow‐up, maybe a near‐
term modeling help. Leeny, you mentioned that normal seasonality is for Q4 over Q3 to be down 
6 percent sequentially  from a RevPAR standpoint. Has  there been a major difference, looking 
back on leisure versus corporate, given that I think we all expect for corporate to kind of improve 
sequentially here? 
Leeny Oberg:  Yes, sure. I think when you look overall at the business, it is traditionally the case 
that you have lower business overall. Again, I think, interestingly, I actually expect leisure could 
continue to strengthen. Because when you think about coming out of the pandemic, increasingly, 
people are feeling comfortable traveling. Where we see festive bookings in places like CALA, et 
cetera, it's great demand. And the holidays are pacing up well compared to 2019, so I think we're 
very encouraged. 
But the overall message we were trying to impart is that, typically, it is a period, just with family 
holidays, et cetera, that it is a lower occupancy quarter. And it's worth mentioning that when you 
go back to 2019 and 2018 levels, and you look at our EBITDA in Q3 and Q4, as we talked about in 
our comments that, typically, Q3 is a higher RevPAR‐driving quarter than Q4 typically. 
Anthony Capuano:  Thank you very much. And thanks to all of you for your continued interest in 
the company and the recovery of the global travel and tourism industry. We are back on the road, 
and we look forward to running into you in our hotels around the world. Thanks again and have 
a great day. 
‐‐END— 
Note on forward‐looking statements:  All statements in this document are made as of November 
3, 2021. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these statements, whether as a 
result of new information, future events or otherwise. This document contains "forward‐looking 
statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws, including statements related to the 
possible effects on our business of the COVID‐19 pandemic and efforts to contain it (COVID‐19); 
recovery in lodging demand; travel and lodging demand and trends; our growth prospects and 
expectations; future performance of the company's hotels; our development pipeline, signings, 
rooms growth and conversions; our investment spending expectations; and similar statements 
18 
concerning anticipated future events and expectations that are not historical facts. We caution 
you  that  these  statements  are  not  guarantees  of  future  performance  and  are  subject  to 
numerous  evolving  risks  and  uncertainties  that  we  may  not  be  able  to  accurately  predict  or 
assess, including those we identify below and other risk factors that we identify in our Securities 
and Exchange Commission filings, including our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10‐Q or 
Annual Report on Form 10‐K. Risks that could affect forward‐looking statements in this document 
include the duration and scope of COVID‐19, including the availability and distribution of effective 
vaccines or treatments; the pandemic’s short and longer‐term impact on the demand for travel, 
transient  and  group  business,  and  levels  of  consumer  confidence;  actions  governments, 
businesses  and  individuals  have  taken  or  may  take  in  response  to  the  pandemic,  including 
limiting, banning, or cautioning against travel and/or in‐person gatherings or imposing occupancy 
or other restrictions on lodging or other facilities; the impact of the pandemic and actions taken 
in response to the pandemic on global and regional economies, travel, and economic activity, 
including  the  duration and magnitude  of  the  pandemic’s impact  on  unemployment  rates and 
consumer  discretionary  spending;  the  ability  of  our  owners  and  franchisees  to  successfully 
navigate the impacts of COVID‐19; the pace of recovery when the pandemic subsides and any 
dislocations in recovery as a result of resurgences of the pandemic; general economic uncertainty 
in key global markets and a worsening of global economic conditions or low levels of economic 
growth; the effects of steps we and our property owners and franchisees have taken and may 
continue  to  take  to  reduce  operating  costs  and/or  enhance  certain  health  and  cleanliness 
protocols  at  our  hotels;  the  impacts  of  our  employee  furloughs  and  reduced  work  week 
schedules, our voluntary transition program and our other restructuring activities; competitive 
conditions  in  the  lodging  industry  and  in  the  labor market;  relationships  with  customers  and 
property owners; the availability of capital to finance hotel growth and refurbishment; the extent 
to which we experience adverse effects from data security incidents; and changes in tax laws in 
countries in which we earn significant income. Any of these factors could cause actual results to 
differ materially from the expectations we express or imply in this document. 