1
Marriott International, Inc.
Second Quarter 2021
Earnings Conference Call Transcript1
August 3, 2021
Operator: Good day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to Marriott International's Second
Quarter 2021 Earnings Conference Call. Today’s call is being recorded. I will now turn the call 
over to Jackie Burka. Please go ahead.
Jackie Burka: Good morning everyone and welcome to Marriott’s second quarter 2021 
earnings call. On the call with me today are Tony Capuano, our Chief Executive Officer, Leeny 
Oberg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Betsy Dahm, our Vice 
President of Investor Relations. 
I will remind everyone that many of our comments today are not historical facts and are 
considered forward-looking statements under federal securities laws. These statements are 
subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, as described in our SEC filings, which could cause 
future results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by our comments. 
Statements in our comments and the press release we issued earlier today are effective only 
today and will not be updated as actual events unfold. Please also note that, unless otherwise 
stated, our RevPAR, occupancy and average daily rate comments reflect systemwide, constant 
currency results for comparable hotels and include hotels temporarily closed due to COVID-19. 
RevPAR, occupancy, and ADR comparisons between 2021 and 2019 reflect properties that are 
defined as comparable as of June 30, 2021, even if they were not open and operating for the 
full year 2019 or they did not meet all the other criteria for comparable in 2019. You can find 
our earnings release and reconciliations of all non-GAAP financial measures referred to in our 
remarks today on our investor relations website. And now I will turn the call over to Tony. 
Tony Capuano: Thank you, Jackie, and good morning, everyone. 
I am very pleased with our second quarter results and the accelerating pace of the global 
recovery. The tremendous overall improvement we saw in both occupancy and rate in the 
quarter demonstrate a basic premise - people love to travel and to stay at our hotels.
Demand grew steadily throughout the second quarter. Worldwide occupancy gained 6 
percentage points in the month of June compared to May and topped 55 percent. Average 
daily rate in June was down only 13 percent from June two years ago. As a result, global
RevPAR has risen meaningfully and swiftly from the depths of the pandemic when RevPAR was 
down 90 percent, to down just 38 percent in June compared to the same month in 2019. 
1 Not a verbatim transcript; extraneous material omitted and edited for clarity and misstatements.
2
Recovery timelines vary by region, given uneven vaccination trends, virus caseloads and travel 
restrictions. Yet we remain encouraged by the incredible resilience of travel demand,
demonstrated by the rapid return of guests in areas where rules have been eased and people 
feel they can travel safely.
This can be seen most keenly in Mainland China, the first major market where RevPAR has 
recovered to pre-pandemic levels. RevPAR in the second quarter was driven by very strong 
demand, resulting in ADR exceeding 2019 levels. Occupancy reached 71 percent in April and 68 
percent in May, before dipping to roughly 60 percent in June due to small COVID outbreaks and 
strict lockdowns in certain markets. Demand recovered quickly once the restrictions were 
lifted, as we have seen throughout the last year. July RevPAR is again expected to exceed 2019 
levels. 
Perhaps most encouragingly, in April, for the first time since the pandemic began, leisure 
transient, business transient and group room nights in Mainland China were all ahead of 2019 
levels. This is especially impressive given the absence of international arrivals due to stringent
border restrictions. 
The U.S. & Canada accounts for roughly two-thirds of our rooms, and in this region lodging 
demand grew impressively during the quarter, led by increasingly strong leisure demand as the 
number of vaccinated people continued to rise. U.S. leisure room nights in the second quarter 
were 15 percent higher than in the second quarter of 2019, though we are seeing more
blending of trip purpose with the more flexible work from home or anywhere trend. Total U.S. 
occupancy reached over 63 percent in June, with ADR down just 11 percent versus June of 
2019. Our strong momentum has continued into the first three and a half weeks of July, with 
U.S. occupancy reaching 67 percent and ADR down only 2 percent compared to July of 2019. 
July RevPAR for this period was down around 16 percent versus July of 2019. 
The U.S. is also seeing increasing signs of recovery in both special corporate and group demand. 
While special corporate booking levels in the first three and a half weeks of July are still down 
around 45 percent compared to the same period in 2019, we are optimistic that we have 
turned a corner. U.S. special corporate bookings rose 23 percent in June over May, and then 
rose another 27 percent in the first three and a half weeks of July, as compared to the first 
three and a half weeks of June, with improvement widespread across industries and 
lengthening booking windows. Many of our corporate customers are telling us they are 
beginning to get back on the road this summer, and we expect to see a step up in business 
travel post Labor Day as children go back to in-person learning and workers increasingly return 
to the office. 
Group bookings in the U.S. have also gained momentum. U.S. group bookings made for all 
future dates were down 29 percent in June compared to those made in June of 2019, a large 
improvement from down 56 percent in March 2021 versus March of 2019. And for the first 
time since the pandemic started, group bookings made in the month of June for any time in 
2021 exceeded in-the-year bookings made in the same month of 2019. 
3
At the end of the second quarter, group revenue pace versus 2019 was down 31 percent for the 
fourth quarter of this year, improving to down 21 percent for the first quarter of 2022 and then 
down 12 percent for the second quarter of 2022. However, it is still early, and we expect 
bookings made closer to the event date will increase group revenue on the books for these 
time periods. Most importantly, our sales team is holding on to average daily rate. ADR for 
group bookings is almost flat for the fourth quarter and 3 percent higher for full year 2022, 
compared to the same periods in 2019.
In other regions in the world, demand in the second quarter improved over the first quarter in 
the Middle East & Africa, in the Caribbean & Latin America, and in Europe.
Middle East & Africa is benefitting from relatively high vaccination rates in many countries in 
the Middle East. Occupancy strengthened to 47 percent in June, largely driven by staycations in 
the UAE and quarantine business. 
Occupancy in Caribbean & Latin American improved meaningfully during the quarter, rising to 
45 percent in June. While urban destinations continue to struggle given slow vaccination rates 
and high COVID case counts, many of our resort properties in the Caribbean and Mexico are 
flourishing, as they benefit from easing international travel restrictions and their close 
proximity to the U.S. 
Europe’s recovery is still lagging, given its heavy reliance on international guests, slower border 
re-openings, and shifting restrictions that change on short notice. Yet, with the EU easing many 
travel restrictions beginning in May, and an increasing number of hotels re-opening, occupancy 
doubled in just three months, reaching 31 percent in June. 
The recovery in Asia Pacific excluding China stalled in the second quarter, as countries such as
Japan, India, South Korea, and Australia imposed strict lockdowns in response to sharp rises in 
Delta variant cases and low vaccination rates. Encouragingly, the recovery is now picking up 
steam again, as caseloads in some countries like India have started to decline. 
Shifting to the development front, our pipeline stood at nearly 478,000 rooms at the end of the 
second quarter. Openings were strong, with nearly 25,000 rooms added to our system during 
the quarter, and deal signings were also healthy. Additionally, less than 2 percent of rooms fell 
out of the pipeline, one of the lowest levels we have seen in the last three years. We are very 
pleased with our momentum around conversions as well. Conversions accounted for 26 
percent of rooms added in the first half of this year and have been a meaningful contributor to 
signings. We continue to have the largest pipeline of global rooms under construction. We are 
also seeing great momentum around our branded residential business, with a record 18 
residential properties expected to open during the year. 
For the full year, we expect that gross rooms growth will accelerate to approximately 6 percent. 
And with more visibility into anticipated full year deletions, we now expect 2021 net rooms 
growth to be towards the higher end of our previous expectation of 3 to 3.5 percent. As a 
reminder, this estimate includes the 100-basis point headwind from the 88 Service Properties 
4
Trust hotels that left our system earlier this year. We are pleased with the continued progress
on replacing those hotels with new product. We are now in conversations for 80 percent of 
those locations, with signed or approved deals for nearly 20 percent.
We continue to enhance and expand Marriott Bonvoy into an immersive travel platform that 
includes multiple products and offerings that enable us to provide value to our members 
beyond hotel stays. The program grew to over 153 million members at the end of the quarter.
Homes and Villas by Marriott International, or HVMI, which currently has around 35,000 whole 
home listings, has been an attractive offering and tool for engaging with members throughout 
the pandemic. With nearly 40 percent of listings in markets where we don’t have distribution, 
HVMI is expanding the number of destination options for our guests. Over 90 percent of HVMI 
room nights in the quarter were booked by Bonvoy members. 
Our co-branded credit card holders were very active in the second quarter, with global card 
spend surpassing the same period in 2019. Global card acquisitions were also strong, reaching
2019 levels. Our recent credit card launches in South Korea and Mexico have seen strong initial 
interest from consumers in those markets. The South Korean card issuer, Shinhan Financial 
Group, touted the launch of our card as one of the most successful premium card launches they 
have ever had. Our total co-brand credit card fees in the second quarter surpassed those in the 
same quarter of 2019 for the first time since the pandemic began. 
We’ve also been very pleased with our successful Uber collaboration in the U.S. The number of 
members linking their accounts to date has far exceeded our expectations. Activated accounts 
were already averaging six transactions in just the first ten weeks, demonstrating our ability to 
drive real engagement with our Marriott Bonvoy members beyond the hotel stay. 
We are always working on innovative ways to enhance our guests’ full travel experience. Just 
last week we became the first major hotel company to provide U.S.-based customers with the 
opportunity to purchase travel insurance. Guests can now buy travel insurance when they 
make a reservation through Marriott’s website or mobile app by linking to approved products 
sold by Allianz Partners. As part of this distribution agreement, Marriott will earn commissions 
from Allianz. 
In another effort to connect with Bonvoy members beyond the hotel stay, we are piloting a
program that allows members to earn and redeem points at food and beverage outlets in select
hotels, even if the member is not staying in the hotel. The program is currently in over 200 
outlets in Asia Pacific and the Middle East, with expansion to over 500 outlets expected by the 
end of the year. 
We also remain keenly focused on engaging with another key constituency, our owner and 
franchisee community. We have worked closely with them throughout the pandemic to help 
lower costs significantly. With the meaningful improvement in demand, profitability for many 
hotel owners accelerated in the second quarter. As the recovery continues, we are aligning 
with our owners and franchisees to balance two important goals as we think about our path 
5
forward – maximizing hotel level cash flow and driving great guest experiences, as Leeny will 
discuss in more detail. 
We are also working to address the labor challenges we are seeing, mainly in the U.S. in 
markets such as Southern Florida, Texas and Arizona, where demand has rebounded quickly. 
To that end, we are increasing our social and targeted marketing of Marriott as a best employer 
with career advancement opportunities, as well as holding job fairs to reach qualified 
candidates. Hiring tools, including one-time sign-on bonuses and temporary incentives, 
sometimes in combination with base salary adjustments in select markets, are also being 
successfully employed. 
Before I turn the call over to Leeny, I want to thank our amazing team of associates around the 
world. I have spent time in Los Angeles, Miami, and New York over the last couple of weeks, as 
I’ve been getting back on the road again. It has been wonderful to visit our hotels and to meet 
with so many of our associates and see firsthand their passion and resilience. These have been 
challenging times, but we are looking forward with optimism. While the timeline is uncertain, I 
am confident that our business will fully recover… and continue to grow from there. 
Leeny?
Leeny Oberg: Thank you, Tony. 
Our second quarter results reflected the strong pace of the global recovery and the incredible 
resilience of our business model. Worldwide occupancy came in at 51 percent, a significant
increase of 13 percentage points over the first quarter of this year. We also saw meaningful 
improvement in our average daily rate decline versus pre-pandemic levels, with ADR down 17 
percent in the quarter compared to the second quarter of 2019. 
We are optimistic that rate recovery will occur faster than in prior downturns when ADR gains 
lagged occupancy gains. It has been very encouraging to see that in Mainland China, ADR has 
come back in tandem with demand. 
Elsewhere, ADR has also been particularly strong in areas where occupancy has rebounded
quickly. In Aruba, Puerto Rico and Mexico, over half of our 28 luxury and upper upscale 
comparable resorts saw record high ADRs for the month of June. In the rest of the U.S., robust 
demand across our 34 comparable luxury resorts drove ADR for those hotels up more than 40 
percent above June 2019 levels. Demand in Greece rose quickly after travel restrictions were 
eased in April, leading to a 20 percent premium in ADR for the quarter versus the same period 
in 2019. 
Global RevPAR declined 44 percent compared to the second quarter of 2019, a more than 15 
percentage point improvement compared to the first quarter RevPAR decline versus the 2019 
first quarter. 
6
We recorded gross fee revenue of $642 million in the second quarter. Our non-RevPAR related 
fees again proved to be quite resilient. Totaling $160 million in the second quarter, these fees 
have now fully recovered to second quarter of 2019 levels. Our residential branding fees were 
strong again this quarter at $14 million. 
Incentive management fees, or IMFs, totaled $55 million in the quarter. Almost half of our 
IMFs were earned in Asia Pacific, mostly from hotels in Mainland China. Around 30 percent of 
our IMFs were earned in the U.S. & Canada region, with a number of U.S. luxury hotels 
generating more incentive fees than in the second quarter of 2019. 
Second quarter G&A and other expense was 18 percent lower than in the second quarter of 
2019, primarily as a result of our significant restructuring activities undertaken last year. We 
had a tax benefit of $41 million in the quarter, due to releasing $118 million of reserves related 
to the favorable resolution of pre-acquisition Starwood tax audits. We continue to believe that 
going forward, our core tax rate will be around 22 to 24 percent absent any legislative changes 
to corporate tax rates. 
Adjusted EBITDA in the second quarter was $558 million, which included $22 million of German 
government support for certain of our leased and joint venture hotels. 
I also want to highlight the sale of the Punta Mita St. Regis in the quarter, a joint venture in 
which we held a minority interest. It is encouraging to see transactions like this occurring, and 
we expect to receive a total of at least $36 million in after-tax cash proceeds from the sale. We 
will continue to operate the hotel under a long-term management agreement. 
At the hotel level, our numerous cost reduction and productivity enhancement efforts have 
significantly lowered breakeven occupancy levels around the world – even further than we 
anticipated when the pandemic got underway. As a result of these efforts, as well as the strong
recovery progress, the financial condition of many of our owners and franchisees continues to 
strengthen as does our accounts receivable collections performance. 
Over 95 percent of our managed comp hotels in Mainland China had positive gross operating 
profits, or GOP, in the second quarter. Our GOP margin for managed comp hotels in this region 
expanded over 200 basis points versus margins in the second quarter of 2019. The strong 
margin expansion exemplifies the beneficial impact of our recent cost reduction and 
productivity enhancement efforts, given operations have fully come back in mainland China
with the recovery in demand. These results also reflect our strong top line performance, driven 
by meaningful share gains in the region thanks to our strong distribution, especially in the 
valuable luxury space, our popular brands, and our powerful loyalty platform.
In the U.S., the number of managed hotels with positive GOP improved significantly in the 
quarter as demand increased. Approximately 90 percent reported positive GOP in the second 
quarter, up from around 60 percent just one quarter ago.
7
As occupancies increase, we are working closely with our hotel owners around the world to 
balance maximizing hotel profitability while also driving guest satisfaction. We are being 
thoughtful about how and whether to bring back costs, programs and amenities that were 
reduced or eliminated as we navigated the depths of the pandemic. 
For example, we have already reinstated accountability for our intent to recommend scores,
with accountable brand standard audits resuming next year. We also introduced a new set of 
renovation rules, which will allow for additional deferrals of some renovations as well as 
reduced scopes for certain properties. We are considering how best to evolve housekeeping 
brand standards across each of our hotel brand tiers while ensuring guest expectations are met. 
We do believe that once business has fully recovered and operations are fully back, there will 
be permanent areas of margin improvement, primarily related to our productivity 
enhancements and the increased use of contactless technologies such as mobile check-in and 
mobile key. 
As we look ahead to the rest of this year, while we are keeping a close eye on variant strains, 
we are optimistic about the continued global recovery. Our momentum has continued into 
July, and we expect an uptick in business travel this fall. We expect that when improved ease of 
international travel occurs, that will also fuel further recovery in lodging demand. While there 
is still too much uncertainty to be able to give specific RevPAR or earnings guidance, I’d like to
provide color on specific items where we do have some visibility. 
Starting with the top line, at current RevPAR levels we still expect the sensitivity of a one-point 
change in full year 2021 RevPAR versus 2019 could be $35 to $40 million of fees. As we have 
seen, the relationship is not linear given the variability of IMFs. We expect our non-RevPAR
related fees to continue to benefit from strong co-brand credit card fees and robust fees from
our branded residence sales. 
We still expect full year G&A to be roughly $800 million, significantly lower than in 2019, and 
interest expense is still anticipated to be around $430 million. Full year cash taxes are now 
expected to be $325 to $350 million.
A key component of cash flow is the loyalty program. With the acceleration of leisure demand, 
we have continued to see redemption nights pick up nicely, especially in our resort 
destinations. We remain focused on carefully controlling Bonvoy program administrative costs, 
and we still anticipate that full year cash flows from the loyalty program could be positive 
before factoring in the reduced payments we will receive from the credit card companies. After 
factoring in these reduced payments, which are expected to effectively repay around one-third 
of the total $920 million we received in 2020, we continue to expect that cash flows from 
loyalty overall could be modestly negative.
With better visibility and our continued disciplined approach to investment spending, we are 
lowering the top end of our full year investment spending expectation and narrowing the range 
to $575 to $625 million. Total investment spending includes capital and technology 
expenditures, loan advances, contract acquisition costs, and other investing activities.
8
We are focused on bringing our credit statistics back in line with our historically strong 
investment grade levels. Our leverage ratios continue to improve, as Marriott’s asset-light 
business model is showing its resilient cash flow characteristics. We expect continued 
improvements in cash flow generation as the recovery progresses. 
I also wanted to add my appreciation for our incredible team of global associates who have 
worked tirelessly throughout the pandemic. They truly exemplify the Marriott spirit to serve 
and take care culture. 
In closing, we could not be more pleased with our progress in the quarter, and we look forward 
to the continued return of guests to our 7800 hotels around the world.
We are happy to take your questions. Operator?
QUESTION AND ANSWER SESSION:
Shaun Kelley, BofAML Securities: I was wondering if we could just talk a little bit about the 
development environment. I was just hoping you can give us a little bit more color. Obviously, it 
looks like the NUG increase was primarily driven by reduction in deletions. But maybe help us 
look out a little further, 2022, 2023. How are the conversations going? And how do you think 
excluding the SVC component, the outlook has looked or changes versus maybe 90 days ago?
Tony Capuano: Of course. Thanks, Shaun. As we mentioned in the prepared remarks, we are 
increasingly confident in our ability to deliver at the top end of our range in 2021. I think, when 
we look at factors like the number of rooms we have under construction, more than 200,000 
rooms, the lowest fallout we've seen from the pipeline in about three years, the accelerated 
pace of conversions, we're increasingly optimistic that we can get back to a mid-single-digit net 
unit growth pace.
But as you've seen with some of the data coming out of STR around the slowdown in U.S. 
construction starts, the reality is the impact of those reduced construction starts will make it 
challenging for us to get back to that mid-single-digit level over the next year or two.
Shaun Kelley, BofAML Securities: Tony, just as the follow-up to -- mid-single digit being more 
of a medium-term target, but just for the next year or two, construction starts probably limiting 
maybe a little bit below that range. Is that the way to think about it?
Tony Capuano: Yes, I think that's right. I think we're guiding to about 3.5 percent net unit 
growth, excluding the impact of SVC in 2021. And then 2022 and 2023 will be the years that we 
think will be impacted by that drop in construction start activity in the U.S.
Leeny Oberg: Shaun, just one follow-up, and that's that we do believe that, while we are 
constrained by these lower construction starts that the industry has seen in the U.S., that we 
9
are going to be able to offset some of this through conversions. And we're really pleased with 
the pace of conversion signings and the conversations that we're seeing on that front. Hard to 
be specific at this point about exactly where that leaves us. But that, again, as Tony said, we're 
confident about getting back to the mid-single-digit rooms growth rate.
Joseph Greff, JPMorgan Chase & Co.: Just wondering, you touched on this a little bit in terms 
of the labor challenges and labor costs going up. So, when we look at the 2Q results, and we're 
looking at your reported results, is there a lag in sort of the operating cost structure, 
particularly with labor relative to the revenue recovery? Is the exit rate coming out of the 2Q in 
cost structure, is that something that's more significant than the reported results because of 
potential add?
Leeny Oberg: Well, as you know, that's going to overwhelmingly show up in IMF, Joe, from a 
standpoint of kind of the way that the quarter's operating profit works at the hotels. So -- and 
as you might imagine, with owners' priorities in the U.S., we didn't have a very high percentage 
of hotels earning incentive fees yet. The biggest growth in incentive fees was in Asia Pacific. And 
frankly, the labor cost pressures are much, much lower there. So honestly, I don't think that 
there is a meaningful impact at all relative to the really rapid increase in occupancy that then 
necessitated that we get our employment levels in the hotels up as quickly as possible. And as 
you said, I think there is a little bit of a lag there. But I don't think it had any sort of impact on 
the profits for the quarter.
Joseph Greff, JPMorgan Chase & Co.: Great. And then you mentioned a group pace for the first 
quarter and second quarter of next year, but maybe you gave it and I missed it, but did you talk 
about full year 2022 pace?
Tony Capuano: Yes. The -- sorry, Joe, the -- yes, we talked a bit about 2022 pace. And I think 
the -- there's a couple of encouraging things. When we look at booking pace, we continue to 
see volumes increasing pretty measurably into 2022. And maybe just as encouraging, if not 
more encouraging, is the pace of ADR growth that we're seeing for 2022 bookings. In fact, if you 
look at group bookings beyond -- in 2022 and beyond, ADR is actually about 3 percent ahead of 
what we were booking back in 2020 for the following year. So, the ADR pricing power that 
we're seeing in group in 2022 and beyond is very encouraging.
Thomas Allen, Morgan Stanley: Just -- you've seen some really encouraging trends out of 
China. Can you just talk about like the pluses and minuses of using China as a comp? Like how 
does your China business differ from kind of your global business?
Leeny Oberg: So, Thomas, it's a good question. And I'll say a couple of things. I think one of the 
things that is the most consistent in Greater China and the U.S. is the reality that the 
overwhelming percentage of travelers that stay at our hotels in those two regions are domestic. 
And so, we're seeing -- obviously, you're seeing some of the same trends in the U.S. that we 
saw earlier in Mainland China, which is that when people feel comfortable to travel, the 
demand picks up really, really quickly, albeit with leisure being the strongest. And clearly, that is 
quite helpful for the hotel's occupancy levels because they're not traveling outside their 
10
country. But I will say that I think the trends have been remarkably similar in terms of the pace 
of ADR recovery at the same time.
And I think the other thing that I'll point out that is interesting is that in Mainland China you do 
see markets, when they do have a pop in some COVID cases, they do shut down demand very 
quickly because the cities are closed down. We haven't obviously seen that same impact in the 
U.S. because the population is more varied in terms of kind of the travel and the way cities are 
shut down or not shut down. So, in that regard, it's perhaps been a little bit more fluid in the 
U.S. But we have seen really terrific similarities in these markets where the occupancy is so 
much based on domestic travel.
I think the other thing I'll point out is that the F&B recovery in Greater China, I think, does point 
out the real strength of our hotel brands there. And that, I think, has been really impressive as 
well.
Thomas Allen, Morgan Stanley: Just a quick follow-up. You mentioned RevPAR was down 16
percent in July versus 2019. Is that U.S. only? Or is that global? And if it's one of them, can you 
give us the other two?
Tony Capuano: That's U.S. only.
Leeny Oberg: …yes.
Thomas Allen, Morgan Stanley: Do you have a global number?
Jackie Burka McConagha: We don't have global numbers yet.
Leeny Oberg: No, we don't. And that was just for the first 3.5 weeks. Just to be clear, that 
wasn't for the month of July. As you know, this is all in real-time that we're pulling this 
together, so we don't have all those numbers quite yet. And again, as we said, that was for the 
U.S.
Thomas Allen, Morgan Stanley: I appreciate all the color. Thank you.
Robin Farley, UBS Investment Bank: I have a question about margins. But first, if I could just 
clarify Tony's comment about guidance for this year for unit growth at 3.5 percent. I thought I 
heard him say excluding the Service Properties Trust. But you meant including that, right?
Tony Capuano: Yes. Sorry. That's right. So, excluding the impact of our SVC, our guidance 
would be 4 percent to 4.5 percent, and we’d guide to the high end of that. If you account for 
the impact of those 88 SVC hotels, it would be 3 percent to 3.5 percent, and we're guiding 
towards the high end of that range. That's correct. Sorry if I misspoke.
Robin Farley, UBS Investment Bank: I just wanted to clarify that. And is the sort of higher end 
of the 3 percent to 3.5 percent range from fewer removals, is it a timing factor? Or in other 
11
words -- or were there properties that sort of were not maybe in compliance with brand 
standards that came back into compliance and won't be removed in 2021? Or is it just that 
some of the removals are sort of pushed into 2022?
Tony Capuano: No. I think really, Robin, it's a by-product of as the year advances we have more 
and more visibility on both fronts in terms of the timing of the individual openings and the 
status of projects going out -- potentially going out of the system.
Robin Farley, UBS Investment Bank: Okay. Great. And then the margin clarification -- or 
question. Leeny, you mentioned 200 basis points ahead of 2019, I think it was for in Greater 
China. And I think when you've talked about potential for margin improvement in the U.S., 
you've maybe sort of said you wouldn't necessarily expect a big increase or a big change in the 
margin when RevPAR is recovered. Is that still the case? In other words, should we think about 
the -- some of the -- this sort of 200 basis points of margin in the example you used in China. Is 
that kind of temporary maybe because brand standards aren't what they were in 2019? Or I'm 
just trying to square that with your sort of previous comments.
Leeny Oberg: Sure, sure. So, a couple of things. First of all, I was speaking about Mainland 
China. And there, I think the interesting thing is that, with RevPAR back to essentially similar 
levels in 2019, we are producing GOP margins that are 200 basis points better. So, I think that 
shows you some of the work that we've been able to do on the cost-management side and 
productivity enhancement side that, that would tell you that those are kind of good margins to 
think about going forward.
I think in the U.S., Robin, the interesting thing here is that we've got a lot of those similar 
productivity and cost enhancements that we've done here, which would lead you to some 
similar sort of conclusions. I think the thing you have to think about is how quickly do labor 
costs and benefit costs increase.
So, as we talked about before, if ADR recovers really quickly, and you've got these productivity 
and cost enhancements in place, you've probably got a similar opportunity in the U.S. for those 
similar kinds of numbers that we talked about in Mainland China. But again, a lot of this 
depends on how quickly it all comes back in the U.S. and also what's going on with wage rates 
and benefit costs.
Smedes Rose, Citigroup Inc.: I was just hoping you could give a little more color on the kind of 
the composition of the group improvement you're seeing in 2022, maybe any changes on a 
regional basis, maybe potentially away from larger, higher-cost cities. Or if you're seeing 
anything just in terms of the kind of corporations or they tend to be smaller. Is it larger? Maybe 
just some color on what you're seeing on any kind of forward bookings.
Tony Capuano: Sure. So, as you know, group is a complex group of subsets of types of groups. 
Where we're seeing really significant acceleration is on social. In fact, in many ways, social 
group demand is largely back to pre-pandemic levels. We are not seeing rapid recovery in 
citywides yet, the sort of big-box convention hotel citywides that we enjoyed pre-pandemic. 
12
And then the fall, I think, will be quite telling as we look for more conventional corporate group 
demand to return.
The only other comment I might make, Smedes, is that we are seeing in-the-year-for-the-year 
group bookings stronger than what we've typically experienced in a pre-pandemic 
environment.
Smedes Rose, Citigroup Inc.: Okay. And can I just ask -- just to kind of follow up on the 
question about margin. As you guys make decisions around housekeeping, would that be kind 
of the key driver for potential margin improvement for owners is possible the elimination or 
significant reduction in housekeeping? Or are there other items on the table that would be very 
important towards potentially driving margin expansion at the property level?
Tony Capuano: Smedes, you can expect us to continue to try to strike the right balance 
between the expectations of our guests as they get back on the road and the financial realities 
that our owners and franchisees face. We'll continue to be guided by guest preference. And it is 
quite interesting when you read some of the verbatims that we hear from our guests. Some of 
our guests that are dipping their toes back into travel are still a bit hesitant about having 
housekeepers in the room, and they appreciate the choice of housekeeping at their discretion. 
Others are vaccinated and feeling encouraged about the safety of travel, and they would prefer 
a more conventional housekeeping solution. And so, I think whether it's housekeeping 
protocols, whether it's food and beverage service, we'll continue to evaluate and evolve those 
service levels by market and by quality tier around the world.
Stephen Grambling, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.: So, you mentioned a number of things about 
the Bonvoy brand extensions and creating value there as well as the strength of non-RevPARrelated fees, including the credit card fees. How do you think about the growth of this segment 
going forward? And how closely it's tied or not tied to kind of a core business, whether that's 
net unit growth or RevPAR, going forward?
Leeny Oberg: So just broadly speaking, the non-RevPAR fees, Stephen, are made up of kind of a 
variety of things. But the biggest chunk of them that make up, again when you think about it 
going back to 2019, call it, $579 million. The biggest chunk is obviously the credit card. And that 
is going to overwhelmingly relate to both the number of cardholders and the amount they 
spend on their co-brand cards.
And as we talked about today, their spending has actually gone back to 2019 levels, and you 
saw the similar thing happened to our co-brand fees. So, I think both the power of Bonvoy, 
combined with kind of general level of consumer spend and health of the economy, particularly 
obviously the U.S. since these fees are overwhelmingly driven by the U.S. cardholders, is how 
you should think about that. I think you're going to continue to see outsized growth in our 
residential branding fees, although they are obviously meaningfully smaller. Timeshare fees is 
much more of a stable number because, as you know, those are overwhelmingly fixed. So, I 
think the biggest driver is really how you think about consumer credit card spend on our cobrand cards.
13
Stephen Grambling, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.: So, I guess, as a follow-up, is there an 
opportunity to monetize or generate credit card fees or other types of fees in the international 
markets where it hasn't been as much of a contributor?
Leeny Oberg: Yes. No, there are just -- they're meaningfully smaller depending on kind of the 
economic structure of the credit card business in those various countries. And obviously, the 
U.S. is a very, very large market. So yes, we are, and we expect to continue to see increases in 
our international credit card co-brand card fees.
And as we talked about in this insurance, travel insurance business that we're entering into, we 
should also be able to benefit there as well. But I would not expect them to be meaningful in 
terms of Marriott's overall earnings stream.
Stephen Grambling, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.: Great. And if I can sneak one other follow-up 
on just on the IMF. You referenced that only a few North America properties are kind of above 
that owner priority level. Is there any kind of level of occupancy recovery or specific markets 
that we really need to see to start seeing those start to be earned again?
Leeny Oberg: Well, honestly, they range all over the map. Just to give you a sense, when you 
go back to 2019, we basically were in a position where our full-service hotels, about half of 
them were earning incentive fees. And overall, for the U.S., it was, call it, 56 percent when you 
take in our limited-service. And there, you obviously had occupancies up into the 70s. But 
otherwise, I will say it's a big mishmash depending on the specifics. The counter to that is, as we 
described in Greater China, where we're at 77 percent earning in the year-to-date numbers for 
IMF. And back in 2019, it was at 86 percent. So, you can see that they behave much more in line 
with base fees. While in the U.S., you really have a ways to go before we get back to earning 
meaningful incentive fees from the U.S.
David Katz, Jefferies LLC: I wanted to take a little longer-term look, Leeny, and wonder what 
would have to happen and how you might be thinking about getting back into the capital 
returns game and whether we'd have a shot at maybe recommending a dividend by the end of 
the year and how you might be thinking about the setup for these items next year, which is sort 
of what we're used to with Marriott.
Leeny Oberg: Sure. Absolutely. I think, as you pointed out, David, we're seeing tremendous 
progress. Our credit ratios are absolutely improving literally month by month, and we're really 
pleased with the progress. First and foremost, we want to get our credit ratios back in line with 
being a strong investment-grade credit. That is the first priority, and we are well on our way. 
And so, I do think we're going to be talking about capital return sooner rather than later.
As you know, David, so much of this is around the pace of continued global vaccination rates as 
well as restrictions on travel and consumers' comfort with travel, both domestically and 
internationally, as well as people returning to their offices, et cetera. So, as we said, we can't 
predict and give you RevPAR and earnings outlooks in specifics. But if we continue to see really 
14
strong progress like we have been seeing, we could absolutely imagine that we're talking about 
capital return later on in 2022. Exactly when we're able to count on that and have a discussion 
with our Board on that topic remains to be seen, but you certainly can envision a scenario that, 
assuming things continue to progress, that that is the case.
David Katz, Jefferies LLC: If I can follow that up, 3 to 3.5x was usually a target. Is there any 
qualification around that, that we should be thinking about today?
Leeny Oberg: No. Except to say that we, again, would want to feel like we are squarely staying 
there, i.e., that the market is -- the lodging recovery has stabilized, that things have gotten to a 
position where reaching that 3 to 3.5 is something that we foresee being very solid going 
forward. But I think that other than that, no additional constraints.
Richard Clarke, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.: Just want to ask a quick question on the gap 
between your gross and net unit growth. I think you've done about 19,900 exits in the first half. 
And if I look at the gap between your net unit growth, that would imply you need to do about 
15 -- a bit more than 15,000 exits in the second half. That's about double what you did in the 
second half of 2019 and actually even ahead of the exits you had in the second half of 2020. So,
is there anything in particular -- anything particular that's coming out there? Is it just 
conservative? Or anything you could mention on that?
Tony Capuano: No. I mean I think we continue to expect to see deletions for the full year in 
that 1 percent to 1.5 percent rate. They -- excluding the impact of SVC, obviously. In terms of 
baseline deletions, they tend to ebb and flow a little bit from quarter-to-quarter. But on a full 
year basis, we are increasingly comfortable with that guidance of 1 percent to 1.5 percent
deletions, excluding SVC.
Richard Clarke, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.: Okay. That make sense. So, are you saying that the 
deletions in Q2, the sort of 2 -- 2,000 or so, 2,500 exits, that's a particularly low number and 
there might be a bit of a catch-up from that in the second half?
Leeny Oberg: Yes, they do -- they are really quite variable during the year. You could have one 
quarter with 7,000. You could have one quarter with 1,000. It's really -- it varies. And we do 
look at this region by region very carefully and looking at expirations and how things are going. 
So, it is -- continues to be, as Tony said, it continues to be our best estimate at this point. It is 
clearly better than where we were earlier in the year because, again, we had a wider range that 
we were considering, and we have been able to firm up that range so that we feel better to say 
that we will be in the space that says we'd be at the top end of that 3 percent to 3.5 percent
range.
And I should add, part of the comfort around that is with the openings as well that we have 
greater visibility on the openings, and we're extremely pleased with the openings in the second 
quarter and year-to-date.
15
Dori Kesten, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC: Given the trends that you've seen in new signings, the 
opening schedule, when would you expect to see the pipeline resume quarter-over-quarter 
growth? I think, in the last downturn, you saw about six quarters of compression.
Tony Capuano: Yes. Again, I might give a different version of the answer I just gave on 
deletions. The pipeline tends to ebb and flow a little bit. Some of the indicators we look at, 
development committee volume, for instance, and we are starting to see an acceleration in our 
volume of deals, particularly in June and July, in our biggest markets, specifically in the U.S. &
Canada and in China. And I think that is encouraging for us.
The other thing is, remember, more than 25 percent of our volume right now is in conversions. 
And because of the quick turn on those conversions, often, those get signed and opened and 
never even make their way into the pipeline. And so that adds to some of the quarter-toquarter variability as well.
Dori Kesten, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC: Okay. And can you just remind us what the difference 
is in fees between a -- between your pipeline that's luxury versus select-service on average?
Tony Capuano: Sorry. The difference in fees, you said?
Dori Kesten, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC: Yes, like the long-term expectations of what a Ritz can 
earn for you guys versus a Residence Inn.
Tony Capuano: Sure. I mean, setting aside the fact that there can be pretty wide variations 
from market to market, the rule of thumb we've shared in the past is that a luxury hotel 
stabilized annual fees could be as much as 10x the annual fees of a select-service hotel like a 
Fairfield Inn.
Michael Bellisario, Robert W. Baird & Co. Inc.: Just a two-part question. I wanted to focus on 
Bonvoy. I'm not sure you mentioned it. What was the occupancy contribution during the 
quarter? And then the bigger-picture question, maybe just -- how are you thinking about 
further broadening the platform and value proposition for guests? Is there any renewed 
interest in travel adjacencies, partnerships or any other brand holes in the portfolio -- the brand 
portfolio that you're seeing? Really just kind of what are your plans to add more value for 
customers as everyone seems to be fighting for a greater share of everyone's travel wallet 
today?
Tony Capuano: Great. Well, let me try to take both of those, and Leeny may chime in as well. 
On your first question, Bonvoy penetration continues to recover. In Q2, we were almost 50
percent, 49.5 percent to be precise. That was a significant increase. We went as low as about 43
percent at the bottom of the pandemic, but it's still a couple of points shy of where we were 
pre-pandemic at about 52 percent. But the pace of penetration recovery, I think, is quite 
encouraging.
16
And then on your second question, I think we continue to look for opportunities to make the 
program stickier to engage with our customers even as they start to get back into travel, and 
we tried to give you a few examples. I think the new travel insurance program is an example. 
The Uber partnership, I think, is a terrific example. The new branded credit cards are a good 
example. And then just the number of app downloads that we're seeing with the Marriott 
Bonvoy app, I think all of those point to our efforts and the success of those efforts in trying to 
grow engagement among our Bonvoy members.
Vince Ciepiel, Cleveland Research Company: A lot of mine have been answered, but one thing 
I'm trying to get a little bit more clarity on, as it relates to your perspective, the trajectory of 
U.S. RevPAR, I think you mentioned in the first few weeks of July, down only 16, ADR 
impressive, only down 2. It sounds like leisure is really contributing nicely to that. I'm just 
curious how you're thinking about the handoff through the second half from leisure into more 
corporate and group and just how sustainable that July run rate is.
Tony Capuano: Well, certainly, the fall is going to be fascinating to watch as more and more 
schools open for in-person learning, as more and more companies get back to the office. I think 
the data that is perhaps most telling from our perspective is some of the statistics we shared 
with you on special corporate bookings. As we mentioned, those bookings rose 23 percent in 
June as we compare to May. And then again, it's just the first 3.5 weeks of July, but we saw 
another 27 percent increase in those first 3.5 weeks of July versus the same 3.5 weeks in June. 
And so, the magnitude and the steadiness of the growth in special corporate bookings, I think, 
is quite encouraging.
And then you've heard us talk about this before. This blending of trip purpose continues to be a 
real and measurable phenomenon. And we think it's good for our business, and we think it will 
continue well beyond the end of the pandemic. With all that said, we will continue to be 
vigilant as we watch the pace of vaccinations around the world, the effectiveness of those 
vaccinations relative to the Delta variant and monitor the impacts of that on our business.
Vince Ciepiel, Cleveland Research Company: Great. And one follow-up, if I may. With that ADR 
number in July, I think the recovery in ADR has been progressing really nicely and probably 
better than a lot of folks thought going into this year. Curious, what do you attribute that 
progress in ADR to? And how sustainable do you think that is through the second half?
Tony Capuano: Well, we certainly look at the pace at which demand is recovering, and the 
amount of pent-up demand is maybe best illustrated by the pricing power we're seeing in rate. 
We knew we'd have that in leisure, but it's really encouraging to see that pricing power extend 
to both business transient and group. And in China, obviously, we've seen ADR come back at 
the same time. And so, you throw all that in the blender, it's really encouraging, and I think it's 
just driven by the sheer volume of demand.
Leeny Oberg: The only other thing I'll add to that is the reality that so much of this depends on 
macroeconomic factors. And so, as consumer confidence and consumer spending and general 
economic growth continue, that will be an important part of being able to continue to see this 
17
growth in demand. And that has also always had an impact on how companies do their group 
bookings, do their business trips, et cetera. And that is another element of this price power.
Bill Crow, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.: First, a clarification. I think it was Smedes that 
asked about 2022 group segmentation. And I think your answer was about -- it was largely a 
social with little evidence of citywides coming back. Was that really more about 2021? Or is that 
still 2022?
Leeny Oberg: We'll get Jackie to get back to you with super specific, but I think the reality, Bill, 
overall, if you're still seeing big chunks of association, corporate and government nights in 
2022. But at the margin, where we're seeing the strongest kind of in-the-period-for-the-period 
demand is in both the smaller and medium-sized groups as well as the social groups, where, in 
many cases, they've put off having events for a year and now coming forward. But again, when 
we think about the big chunks of business, we've still got -- I mean, I'm sure you've heard from 
Gaylord about their bookings. There's still a wide swath across all the big segments of group 
business for 2022.
The other thing to point out is that we still are in a position where the room nights are -- the 
current pace for group is still down for 2022. It's just down a lot less than it used to be. And that 
it also -- we're seeing strong rate, where rate is actually up compared to 2019. And with each 
progressing quarter, you see those nights improve as you move farther and farther away from 
Q3 of 2021, where there's still obviously some concern around these variants.
Bill Crow, Raymond James & Associates, Inc.: If you will, my question that I really wanted to 
address is housekeeping. And how are the guest requests for nightly housekeeping trending? 
We had heard from someone else that they had doubled over the last 3 to 6 months, where the 
guests are proactively asking for that.
And then I guess the second part of that is simply, should we expect that the guest-facing 
experience at luxury and upper upscale hotels will be very similar to where it was eventually in 
2019? And therefore, the best opportunity for margin improvement on the housekeeping side 
might be at select-service hotels? Is that a fair way to think about it?
Tony Capuano: Okay. Well, so there's a few questions embedded in there. I think, on your first 
question, the housekeeping protocols will really continue to be driven by guest preference and 
will likely vary as you kind of move up and down the quality tiers. On your second point, I think I 
tend to agree with you that in the luxury and upper upscale tier I think that the guest 
expectations should be much more similar to what they saw in a pre-pandemic environment.
And then on your third question, I'm not sure I necessarily agree with that for the simple reason 
that what's driving margin, certainly, there's the cost side, but there is the top line piece as well. 
And while it's a single data point, we saw over 4th of July weekend U.S. resort ADR up about 10
percent. But if you carve out just the luxury tier -- Jackie will have to keep me honest here -- but 
I think we were up close to 35 percent in ADR. And so, at that sort of premium and rate, you 
18
should expect some meaningful margin improvement even if you're back to pre-pandemic 
service levels.
Patrick Scholes, Truist Securities, Inc.: One of the more controversial topics right now are -- is 
what percentage, if any, of business travel may be permanently lost. And certainly, a New York 
Times article yesterday throwing more fuel on that fire. I'm wondering what your thoughts are 
around that question.
Tony Capuano: Well, again, we've shared a bunch of data points with you today that I think 
underpin our optimism about the return of business transient demand. I do think, going 
forward, this blending of trip purpose that you've heard me talk about, we continue to think it's 
great for our business and our industry, and we continue to think it's here to stay for quite a 
while. We are optimistic about the return of business travel. We talk to about 700 corporate 
travel managers every month. And we are hearing anecdotally from our customers, particularly 
those that are in customer service businesses, law firms, accounting firms, consulting firms, that 
it is critical to their business that they be on the road and in person with their customers.
If anything, going forward, I do think it may be a bit more difficult to determine precisely 
looking at a guest walking through the lobby exactly what their trip purpose is. We're not asking 
you at the front desk are you here for business, are you here for leisure or both. But I do think 
you'll see a lengthening of stay as a result of this blending of trip purposes. And in fact, that 
length of stay is measurable, and we continue to see that through the second quarter of this 
year.
Great. Well, again, thank you all for your participation and interest this morning. I hope you 
hear our optimism about the pace of recovery we're seeing in many markets around the world. 
We're excited ourselves to be back on the road. We hope you're getting out there as well, and 
we look forward to seeing you in our hotels in the weeks and months ahead. Thanks, and have 
a great day.
--END—
Note on forward-looking statements: All statements in this document are made as of August 
3, 2021. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these statements, whether as 
a result of new information, future events or otherwise. This document contains "forwardlooking statements" within the meaning of federal securities laws, including statements related 
to the possible effects on our business of the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to contain it 
(COVID-19); recovery in lodging demand; travel and lodging demand and trends; future 
performance of the company's hotels; our development pipeline, signings, rooms growth and 
conversions; the expected timing and completion of certain transactions; our investment 
spending expectations; and similar statements concerning anticipated future events and 
expectations that are not historical facts. We caution you that these statements are not 
guarantees of future performance and are subject to numerous evolving risks and uncertainties 
that we may not be able to accurately predict or assess, including those we identify below and 
19
other risk factors that we identify in our Securities and Exchange Commission filings, including 
our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks that 
could affect forward-looking statements in this document include the duration and scope of 
COVID-19, including the availability and distribution of effective vaccines or treatments; the 
pandemic’s short and longer-term impact on the demand for travel, transient and group 
business, and levels of consumer confidence; actions governments, businesses and individuals 
have taken or may take in response to the pandemic, including limiting, banning, or cautioning 
against travel and/or in-person gatherings or imposing occupancy or other restrictions on 
lodging or other facilities; the impact of the pandemic and actions taken in response to the 
pandemic on global and regional economies, travel, and economic activity, including the 
duration and magnitude of the pandemic’s impact on unemployment rates and consumer 
discretionary spending; the ability of our owners and franchisees to successfully navigate the 
impacts of COVID-19; the pace of recovery when the pandemic subsides and any dislocations in 
recovery as a result of resurgences of the pandemic; general economic uncertainty in key global 
markets and a worsening of global economic conditions or low levels of economic growth; the 
effects of steps we and our property owners and franchisees have taken and may continue to 
take to reduce operating costs and/or enhance certain health and cleanliness protocols at our 
hotels; the impacts of our employee furloughs and reduced work week schedules, our voluntary 
transition program and our other restructuring activities; competitive conditions in the lodging 
industry and in the labor market; relationships with customers and property owners; the 
availability of capital to finance hotel growth and refurbishment; the extent to which we 
experience adverse effects from data security incidents; and changes in tax laws in countries in 
which we earn significant income. Any of these factors could cause actual results to differ 
materially from the expectations we express or imply in this document.