1
Facebook, Inc. (FB)
Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call
October 30th, 2019
Operator
Good afternoon. My name is Mike, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would 
conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Facebook Third 
Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background 
noise. After the speakers’ remarks, there will be a question and answer session. If you would like to ask 
a question during that time, please press star then the number one on your telephone keypad. This call 
will be recorded. Thank you very much. Ms. Deborah Crawford, Facebook's Vice President of Investor 
Relations, you may begin.
Deborah Crawford, VP, Investor Relations
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Facebook’s second third quarter 2019 earnings conference 
call. Joining me today to discuss our results are Mark Zuckerberg, CEO; Sheryl Sandberg, COO; and Dave 
Wehner, CFO.
Before we get started, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that our remarks today will 
include forward‐looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by 
these forward‐looking statements.
Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are set forth in today’s press release, and in 
our quarterly report on form 10‐Q filed with the SEC. Any forward‐looking statements that we make on 
this call are based on assumptions as of today and we undertake no obligation to update these 
statements as a result of new information or future events.
During this call we may present both GAAP and non‐GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP 
to non‐GAAP measures is included in today’s earnings press release. The press release and an 
accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at investor.fb.com.
And now, I’d like to turn the call over to Mark.
Mark Zuckerberg, CEO
Thanks Deborah, and thank you all for joining us today.
Before we get started, I want to talk about the announcement we just shared that Sue DesmondHellmann is leaving our board to focus on her health and other commitments. Sue has been a wonderful 
and thoughtful voice on our board for six years, and I'm deeply, personally grateful for everything she 
has done for this company.
This was a good quarter for our community and our business. There are now around 2.8 billion people 
using Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp or Messenger each month, and around 2.2 billion people using at 
least one of our services daily. The Facebook app had a particularly strong quarter, including in the US 
and Canada. We also recently released that we estimate that more than 140 million businesses, mostly 
2
small businesses, are using our services each month to grow, create jobs and become social hubs in their 
communities.
This has been a busy quarter on a lot of fronts.
We've launched a number of exciting new products, like Facebook Dating in the US, which is doing quite 
well, Threads for Instagram, a camera-first experience to share with your close friends, Facebook News, 
our dedicated product for news that we've built in partnership with news publishers, and we introduced 
Horizon, a new social experience for VR. We also released hand-tracking technology for Oculus and 
Oculus Link so your Quest is basically now a Rift too. We're making progress building out the private 
social platform across WhatsApp, Messenger and Instagram Direct. And we have multiple exciting 
initiatives around commerce and payments that are moving forward, from Marketplace to Instagram 
Shopping to payments in WhatsApp and continuing our discussions on Libra.
This has also been a busy quarter on the policy and social issues front. We formally entered into a 
settlement with the FTC to make structural changes and build a rigorous privacy program that will set a 
new standard for our industry. We're about a year out now from the 2020 elections and we just 
announced that the systems we've built are now so advanced that we've proactively identified and 
removed multiple foreign interference campaigns coming from Russia and Iran. And we've found 
ourselves in the middle of the debate about what political speech is acceptable in the upcoming 
campaigns.
But today I want to focus on talking about principles. Because from a business perspective, it might be 
easier for us to choose a different path than the one that we're taking. So I want to make sure everyone 
is clear about what we stand for, and why we're making some of the decisions that we're making.
I gave a speech a couple weeks ago about the importance of standing for voice and free expression. I 
believe strongly -- and I believe history supports -- that free expression has been important for driving 
progress and building more inclusive societies around the world, that at times of social tension there has 
often been an urge to pull back on free expression, and that we will be best served over the long term 
by resisting this urge and defending free expression.
Today is certainly a historical moment of social tension, and I view an important role of our company as 
defending free expression.
Now this has never been absolute and of course we take our responsibility to prevent harm very 
seriously too. I think we invest more in getting harmful content off our services than any other company 
in the world. Those who follow us closely know that we have more than 35,000 people working on 
safety and security, and that our budget for this work is billions of dollars a year -- more than the whole 
revenue of our company at the time of our IPO earlier in this decade. And we're going to keep investing 
more here. But while we work hard to remove content that can cause real danger, I think we also need 
to be careful about adopting more and more rules that restrict the ways that people can speak and what 
they can say.
Right now, the content debate is about political ads. Should we block political ads with false statements? 
Should we block all political ads? Google, YouTube and most internet platforms run these same ads, 
most cable networks run these same ads, and of course national broadcasters are required by law to run 
them by FCC regulations. I think there are good reasons for this. In a democracy, I don't think it's right 
3
for private companies to censor politicians or the news. And although I've considered whether we 
should not carry these ads in the past and I’ll continue to do so, on balance so far I've thought we should 
continue. Ads can be an important part of voice -- especially for candidates and advocacy groups that 
the media might not otherwise cover so they can get their message into debates. And it's hard to define 
where to draw the line. Would we really want to block ads for important political issues like climate 
change or women's empowerment? Instead, I believe the better approach is to work to increase 
transparency. Ads on Facebook are already more transparent than anywhere else. We have a political 
ads archive so anyone can scrutinize every ad that's run -- you can see every message, who saw it, how 
much was spent – and that’s something that no TV or print media does.
Since this is an earnings call, I want to talk about the business impact of all this.
Some people accuse us of allowing this speech because they think all we care about is making money. 
That's wrong. I can assure you, from a business perspective, the controversy this creates far outweighs 
the very small percent of our business that these political ads make up. We estimate these ads from 
politicians will be less than 0.5% of our revenue next year. That's not why we're doing this. To put this in 
perspective, the FTC fine that these same critics said wouldn't be enough to change our incentives was 
more than 10x bigger than this. The reality is we believe deeply that political speech is important, and 
that's what is driving us.
Other people say this policy is a part of a broader pattern of us building a system that incentivizes 
inflammatory content to fuel our business. Again, to the contrary, I think we've done more than any of 
the other major internet platforms to try to build positive incentives into our systems. We don't let any 
of our News Feed or Instagram Feed teams set goals around increasing time spent on our services. We 
rank feeds to encourage meaningful social interactions -- helping people connect with friends, family 
and their communities. We have real people come in and tell us what content they saw that was most 
meaningful to them and sparked valuable discussions, and then we build systems to try to surface that 
kind of content. We've taken many steps over the years to fight clickbait and polarization, and now 
we're even testing removing like counts in Instagram and Facebook. We do this because we know that if 
we help people have meaningful interactions, they'll find our services more valuable and that's the key 
to building something sustainable and growing over time.
Last year, you probably remember that we made a series of changes that emphasized friends and family 
and reduced time spent on our services. One change removed 50 million hours of viral video watching a 
day. We did this knowing it would mean people spend less time on our apps -- which is not what you do
if you're just prioritizing engagement over everything else. I take getting the incentives right very 
seriously and we're willing to make huge sacrifices in the short term to do what we think is right and will 
be better over time.
Finally, some people say this is just all a cynical political calculation and that we're acting in a way we 
don't believe because we're trying to appease conservatives. That's wrong too. We face a lot of criticism 
from both progressives and conservatives. Frankly, if our goal were trying to make either side happy, 
then we're not doing a very good job because I'm pretty sure everyone is frustrated with us. Our values 
on voice and free expression are not partisan. But unfortunately, in our current environment, a lot of 
people look at every decision through the lens of whether it's going to help or hurt the candidate they 
want in winning their next election.
4
A lot of people have told us: you've got to pick a side, or else both sides are going to cause problems for 
you. Sadly, from a practical perspective, they may be right. But we can't make decisions that way. So 
over the next year of campaigns, we're going to be at the center of the debate anytime there's content 
or policies on any of our services that people believe could advantage or disadvantage their side. This 
may lead to more investigations, and the candidates are going to criticize us.
I expect that this is going to be a very tough year. We try to do what we think is right, but we're not 
going to get everything right. This is complex stuff and anyone who says the answers are simple hasn't 
thought long enough about all the nuances and downstream challenges.
I get that some people are going to disagree with our decisions. I get that some people are going to think 
our decisions may have a negative impact on things they really care about. But I don't think anyone can 
say we're not doing what we believe, or that we haven't thought hard about these issues.
I could be wrong, but my experience running this company so far has been that if we do what we believe 
is right, even when it's unpopular for years at a time -- then eventually it has worked out best for our 
community and for our business too.
There's a lot at stake here. We are at a cross-roads not only in our own country, but in the future of the 
global internet as well. China is building its own internet and media ecosystem that’s focused on very 
different values. And as these systems compete, this question of which nation's values will determine 
what speech is allowed for decades to come really puts into perspective the issues that we face today. 
Because while we may disagree on exactly where to draw the line on specific issues, we at least can 
disagree. That's what free expression is about.
Voice and expression have been important for progress throughout history. They've been important in 
the fight for democracy worldwide. I believe that voice and free expression are an important part of the 
path forward today, and that's why our company will continue standing for these principles.
As always, I am grateful for all of your support in everything we do -- and that's especially true today. In 
addition to these challenges, there are a lot of great things going on that I'm incredibly proud of and 
excited about, and I'm glad that our community and business trends continue heading in a good 
direction. I'm happy to talk about any of these things in the Q&A, and now here's Sheryl to talk more 
about our business.
Sheryl Sandberg, COO
Thanks Mark, and hi everyone.
It was a strong quarter for our business. Ad revenue grew 28% year over year, and we saw strong 
performance in all regions and on both Facebook and Instagram. Mobile ad revenue was $16.4 billion, 
contributing approximately 94% of total ad revenue.
We know we have a very important responsibility to keep people safe and continue innovating to help 
businesses of all sizes grow. We’re working hard to demonstrate our commitment to the billions of 
people and 140 million businesses who use our platforms every month.
I want to start by talking about some of the protections we’re putting in place to keep people safe.
5
As Mark said, the 2020 US elections are only a year away. We’re continuing to invest in people and 
technology so that we can disrupt networks of bad actors, find and remove bad content, and stop fake 
accounts before people see them. We are also making political advertising on Facebook more 
transparent than anywhere else. In 2018, we started requiring ads about social issues, elections or 
politics to get authorized before running – and this quarter we strengthened those requirements to ask 
for even more information. Helping people understand who is trying to influence their vote – without 
becoming arbiters of political truth ourselves – is critical to empowering people and keeping them safe.
We’re also holding ourselves to a higher standard when it comes to protecting people from 
discrimination on Facebook. Earlier this year, we reached an important settlement with the National Fair 
Housing Alliance, the ACLU, the Communication Workers of America and others to restrict targeting 
options for housing, employment and credit ads. Now, advertisers in these areas are required to use a 
new buying process – and by the end of the year, people will be able to view all current housing ads in 
the United States.
While these changes could have a small negative impact on our business in the short term, we believe 
they are the right thing to do for people and our business over the long term.
At the same time, we are continuing to innovate to grow our business and help advertisers grow theirs. 
We do this by improving our ads products and creating new formats to help advertisers more easily 
reach their current and future customers.
From the biggest brands in the world to the local barber, we are committed to leveling the playing field 
for businesses of all sizes. We give businesses free tools that previously only the largest companies could 
access. But we know this is not enough. We also need to ensure that small businesses have the digital 
skills to use those tools effectively. With the holiday shopping season approaching, we launched a series 
of Holiday Bootcamp training sessions in 17 of our offices around the world – from New York to the 
Philippines. We simplified Business Manager, our tool for managing campaigns, to help businesses more 
easily create ads that align with their goals. We are continually making these basis point improvements 
to help advertisers save time and money – and build their business.
We’re also focused on developing products to help businesses reach people where they are. Stories are 
a great example – and we’re continuing to see fast adoption across Facebook, Messenger, Instagram, 
and WhatsApp. To make it easier for more businesses to create ads for the Stories format, we recently 
launched customizable templates for Facebook, Instagram and Messenger. After uploading existing 
photos and videos, advertisers can choose from different layouts, color and text options. This helps 
businesses more easily create more engaging Stories.
Messaging is one of the fastest growing areas for online communication – especially between businesses 
and people. We’ve seen businesses use Messenger to reach customers, generate new leads and even 
sell cars. For example, French auto manufacturer Renault used a combination of Instagram Stories and 
Click-to-Messenger ads to drive sales of a limited-edition vehicle, the Captur Tokyo. Facebook was their 
only advertising channel, and over the span of 30 days, they sold 100 cars – 20 directly through 
Messenger. This quarter we added a Click-to-Messenger feature in Stories so businesses can grab 
someone’s attention in Stories and then continue the conversation.
6
We also continue to build new formats that enable brands to interact with people in fun and engaging 
ways – and make commerce more convenient. Earlier this year, we launched polling stickers for Ads in 
Instagram Stories – and this quarter, we introduced our next wave of interactive advertising to help 
build even stronger connections between people and businesses.
According to eMarketer, 63% of internet users surveyed in the U.S. say they’ve tried an augmented 
reality experience created by a brand. To help advertisers experiment with this, we launched a small 
beta test this quarter. As part of the test, We Make-up, an Italian cosmetics brand, used AR ads to give 
people an easy way to try on different shades of lipstick and they saw a 27% lift in purchases.
While it is still very early days, we are making it easier for people to browse, discover, buy and sell across 
our platforms. Take Facebook Marketplace as an example. We launched the commerce platform three 
years ago this month, and we’re now seeing millions of interactions between buyers and sellers every 
day. From furniture to used vehicles, people have an opportunity to discover the things they love – and 
advertisers in nearly 100 regions have an opportunity to reach people where they shop.
I want to close by saying how grateful I am to our partners around the world who continue to give us 
valuable feedback on how we can better deliver on our responsibilities and help them grow.
I also want to thank the Facebook teams who are deeply committed to making progress on the major 
social issues facing the internet and our company – and driving growth for businesses.
Thanks everyone, and here’s Dave.
David Wehner, CFO
Thanks Sheryl and good afternoon everyone.
Let me begin with our community metrics.
We were pleased with the growth of the Facebook community this quarter. Daily active users reached 
1.62 billion, up 9% compared to last year, led by growth in India, Indonesia, and the Philippines. This 
represents approximately 66% of the 2.45 billion monthly active users in September. MAUs grew 8% or 
178 million compared to last year. We were pleased with the growth trends in all regions including the 
US & Canada.
In terms of our Family metrics, we continue to grow and estimate that on average, around 2.2 billion 
people used at least one of our apps on a daily basis in September and around 2.8 billion were active on 
a monthly basis.
As a reminder, the Family metrics are our best estimate of our deduplicated audience across Facebook, 
Instagram, Messenger, and WhatsApp. We believe that these numbers better reflect the size of our 
community and the fact that many people are using more than one of our services. Over time, we 
anticipate family metrics will play the primary role in our disclosures and how we talk about the 
company.
Turning now to the financials. All comparisons are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted.
7
Q3 total revenue was $17.7 billion, up 29% or 31% on a constant currency basis. As expected, we saw a 
deceleration in our constant currency revenue growth vs. the second quarter. Had foreign exchange 
rates remained constant with the third quarter of 2018, total revenue would have been approximately 
$297 million higher.
Q3 total ad revenue was $17.4 billion, up 28% or 31% on a constant currency basis.
In terms of regional ad revenue growth, APAC and Rest of World were strongest and grew 35% and 34%, 
respectively. APAC got more of a revenue lift from our recent product optimizations while Rest of World 
benefitted from favorable macroeconomic trends compared to the weaker environment in Q3 of last 
year. North America and Europe grew 27% and 24%, respectively.
In Q3, the number of ad impressions served across our services increased 37% and the average price per 
ad decreased 6%. Impression growth was primarily driven by ads on Facebook News Feed, Instagram 
Stories and Instagram Feed. The year-over-year decline in average price per ad was primarily driven by 
the ongoing mix shift towards geographies and Stories ads which monetize at lower rates.
Payments and Other Fees revenue was $269 million, up 43%. This year-over-year growth was driven 
primarily by sales of new products, notably Oculus Quest.
Turning now to expenses.
Total expenses were $10.5 billion, up 32%.
We ended Q3 with approximately 43,000 full-time employees, up 28%.
Operating income was $7.2 billion, representing a 41% operating margin.
Our Q3 tax rate was 17%. Net income was $6.1 billion or $2.12 per share.
Capital expenditures were $3.7 billion, driven by ongoing investments in data centers, servers, network 
infrastructure, and office facilities.
We generated $5.6 billion in free cash flow and ended the quarter with approximately $52.3 billion in 
cash and investments.
In Q3, we bought back approximately $1.2 billion of our Class A common stock.
Turning now to the revenue outlook.
As I indicated on our second quarter call, we continue to expect a more pronounced deceleration of our 
revenue growth rate in Q4. We expect our Q4 reported revenue growth rate will decelerate by a mid-tohigh single digit percentage compared to our Q3 rate. This deceleration is largely driven by the lapping 
of several successful product optimizations in Q4 of last year, as well as ad targeting related headwinds. 
Since these factors are largely unique to Q4, we would expect our revenue growth deceleration in 2020
versus the Q4 rate to be much less pronounced.
Turning now to the 2019 expense outlook.
8
Due to the FTC settlement announced earlier this year, we are providing our expense outlook on a dollar 
basis for additional clarity. We anticipate 2019 total expenses will be approximately $46 to $48 billion. 
As a reminder, this range includes $5B in accruals we recorded in the first half of 2019 related to our 
FTC settlement.
We expect 2019 capital expenditures will be approximately $16 billion, compared to our prior estimate 
of $16-18 billion. Our capital expenditures are driven primarily by our ongoing investments in data 
centers, servers and network infrastructure.
Turning now to tax. We expect our Q4 tax rate will be in the range of 18-20%.
I’d also like to share our initial outlook on 2020 expenses.
We anticipate that our 2020 total expenses will be in the range of $54 to $59 billion. Our plan to 
reaccelerate headcount growth as well as growth in non-headcount related expenses like marketing 
factors into this guidance.
We expect that 2020 capital expenditures will be approximately $17-$19 billion, driven by investments 
in data centers, servers, office facilities and our network infrastructure.
Lastly, we anticipate our 2020 effective tax rate will be in the range of 18-20%.
In summary, Q3 was a strong quarter for Facebook. We were pleased with the growth of our community 
and continued momentum in our ads business. At the same time, we continued to make investments in 
important areas like privacy, safety, and innovation.
With that, operator, let’s open up the call for questions.
Operator: We will now open the lines for our question and answer session. To ask a question, 
press star followed by the number one on your touchtone phone. Please pick up 
your handset before asking your question to ensure clarity. If you are streaming 
today’s call, please mute your computer speakers. Your first question comes from 
the line of Doug Anmuth from JPMorgan. 
Douglas Anmuth: Thanks for taking the question. First for Dave, can you just help us understand a 
little bit more on the 4Q on the revenue decel, just some of the product 
improvements from last year that you're lapping? 
And then also just how you're thinking about the ad targeting headwinds, 
considering that they didn't seem to show up in the 3Q numbers that much. And 
then, Mark, can you just talk about Instagram Shopping, how that's ramping and 
9
how you're thinking about expanding that initiative as you're going deeper into Q4 
here? 
David Wehner: Doug, it's Dave. Yes, on the Q4 outlook, we are lapping a few different product 
optimizations we made. A couple of those that I would cite is optimizations in how 
the ad auction operates, which can have an impact, and also, an increase in ad load 
on IG Feed and Stories. 
And so as I noted, these are factors that are largely Q4 related. And given that, we 
would expect the 2020 revenue deceleration to be much less pronounced. And then 
in addition, in Q4 and over the longer term, we do continue to expect to face ad 
targeting-related headwinds and uncertainties. 
And I’d just go back to the three factors that I cited in the past. That the regulatory 
landscape is continuing to evolve. So for example, when GDPR came into effect, we 
saw a number of people who opted out on allowing us to use context from the apps 
and websites they visited for ad targeting. 
And then the second factor is just, we're seeing proposed changes from the from 
the mobile platforms that are more oriented towards privacy, which could affect 
targeting and measurement and make that more difficult.
And then finally, we are rolling out our own product changes such as the recent 
launch of OFA. That's our user control on what data is stored on Off Facebook 
Activity. So I'd say those three factors still factor in. And when it comes to this, I'd 
say the majority of the potential signal loss is still in front of us rather than behind 
us. So I think those headwinds are still real and out there, and that factors into our 
outlook as well. 
Sheryl Sandberg: I'll take the Instagram Shopping question. We think there's a big opportunity over 
the long run here because 90% -- more than 90% of Instagram users are following a 
business. 
But on the Shopping product itself, it's still very early days, and we're working to 
improve the product, and it's quite small. We started testing in Q3 shopping ads, the 
idea that shoppers can tap on ads, see a product description page, and can purchase 
from the business' mobile sites. 
10
Again, we think interesting products but very nascent. Our overall Commerce efforts 
go across not just Instagram, but Facebook in all of our properties. And our goal is to 
make it more convenient, accessible and secure for people and business to browse, 
discover, buy and sell. 
I think we have been and continue to be a great place for people to browse and 
discover, that continues to drive the great, great majority of our business and will 
for the foreseeable future. But as we can help people reduce friction and close that 
loop, we think that's a good opportunity for people and for our business. 
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Justin Post from Bank of America Merrill 
Lynch. 
Justin Post: Great, thank you. Maybe one for Mark and one for Dave. First, on Watch, with all 
the OTT launches, it's kind of interesting. Can you talk about your usage of the 
Watch tab and what your overall professional content strategy is and whether it 
could start contributing revenues going forward? 
And then, Dave, you mentioned the headcount growth accelerating. Could you give 
us some of the areas where you'll be adding headcount next year? Thank you.
Mark Zuckerberg: I'm happy to talk about Watch for a little bit. I don't think we have any new stats to 
share on this. But I mean, overall, we rolled out the tab -- for almost the first year, 
we were really tuning it, just to make sure that it would be retentive and very 
valuable for people. 
So in general, the way we think about this stuff is it's -- we can -- we try not to put 
something in front of a lot of people unless we're confident that they're going to 
find it useful and want to come back and use it multiple times, and we can put a lot 
of things in front of people and they'll try them once, but we want to wait until it's --
until things are kind of retentive and useful. 
So we got to there on Watch. It's growing well. And that is -- so we're kind of still 
now focused on continuing to make it better and continuing to grow it. The 
premium content part of it, yes, I think the right way to think about this is almost as 
marketing to help people try out the tab for the first time. 
11
It's -- there are some good tent pole pieces of content that people really love, that 
they come and they check out the product to experience that, and then they stay 
for a lot of the other valuable content that's in there that might not be talked about 
as much in the news. So that's, I think, the right way to think about that. 
David Wehner: Hi, Justin, it's Dave. On the 2020 expense outlook, that includes headcount growth 
and also other expense growth, sort of around infrastructure is a big factor as well. 
We're seeing that large CapEx build over the last several years flowing through 
depreciation and cost of revenue. So that's a driver of the growth as well. We are 
planning to reaccelerate or accelerate hiring in 2020, and that's really going to be 
focused on the important priorities of the company. 
So that includes our privacy, safety, and security investments. So we are investing a 
lot in privacy related to building the products and also working on complying with 
the FTC settlement. 
And then we're continuing to invest heavily in our innovation investments. That 
includes building products around Facebook and Instagram and continuing to 
improve those, but also in new developing areas like AR, VR. So those are big factors 
in growth. And then we are planning on growing non-headcount-related expenses 
as well like marketing. And ultimately, that will depend on how the ROI of those 
investments play out over time. 
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Eric Sheridan from UBS. 
Eric Sheridan: Thanks for taking the question. Maybe two, if I can. You gave us a little bit of color 
on Asia and Rest of World and why those had accelerated. Any additional color you 
could give on sort of the U.S. or Europe or things you saw in the quarter that might 
have impacted the growth rate in those regions? 
And going to the Q4 guide, is there any color you can give us on how different 
regions of the world might be impacted against the mid- to high-single-digit 
deceleration off the levels of Q3 just so we have a better understanding of where 
you might be seeing some of those tougher comps or product optimization play out 
on a global scale? Thanks so much.
12
David Wehner: Thanks, Eric. We're not breaking out specific regional impact, but let me give you 
some color around the acceleration in areas like Rest of World and APAC. APAC 
benefited from some of the products optimizations we did in the quarter. 
One thing that I would cite there is just how we manage ad load and balance some 
of our internal promotion units and sort of use it as internal house spend and the 
nature of the changes that we made in that had a more pronounced impact in some 
of the lower ARPU countries and unlock more impression growth in those markets. 
So, that was one of the factors. 
And then, Brazil was particularly weak last Q3. So, that had a good compare on a 
macroeconomic basis. In terms of the Q4 guide, not anything I would say specifically 
there. 
In the U.S., we'll have a shorter holiday season. It’s hard to know how that's going to 
play into it, just given the late arrival of Thanksgiving. 
But I think overall, the product optimizations that we're comping against in Q4 were 
global changes. So, I think we're going to see the deceleration impact all regions. 
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley. 
Brian Nowak: Thanks for taking my question. I have two. The first one, Mark, you mentioned 
Facebook app, in particular, had a strong quarter in the U.S. and Canada. We can 
see it in the DAU numbers. Would be curious to hear about any specific products or 
changes or types of behavior you're seeing that really is driving the stronger 
engagement on big blue. 
Then the second one, you have so many monetization, I guess, we call them on 
most products to come. You talk about Commerce and IGTV and Stories and 
Discover, just as we sort of think about the timing of these, which one or two of 
those are you sort of most excited about to drive the business into 2020? Thanks.
David Wehner: Yes. I'll take -- I can take the first one on the Facebook app. It's a bunch of different 
places in which I think we made improvements. I would say globally, especially 
outside the U. S., we saw good improvements around engagement around video. 
13
In the U.S., I think it was less video and more core feed engagement. So it's a bunch 
of different factors. And I think we're seeing good engagement from a bunch of 
cohorts in the U.S., which is good. 
But of course, we are highly penetrated in the U.S. and Canada. So we would expect 
that to bounce around. So I think that we saw great growth this quarter. We are 
quite penetrated.
In terms of monetization opportunities, I can speak to that, and Mark can add color 
if he would like. Obviously -- and Sheryl, would like to add color as color as well. So 
Stories is obviously one of the big growing areas for us and continues to be a big 
driver. 
We're also seeing opportunities around Instagram Explore going into 2020. We're 
now monetizing with that product, and more advertisers are buying from it. And 
then Sheryl is going to jump in and I think give some additional color. 
Sheryl Sandberg: Yes. I think in terms of our core advertising products and growth, it's worth really 
remembering that our core feed products for Facebook and Instagram are growing 
nicely and well, and we see a lot of opportunity to continue that growth. Definitely, 
Stories is a big part of the success. 
We've had, I think, a lot of success moving advertisers to where people already are. 
That's what happened with mobile ads. People weren't really doing mobile ads, and 
we helped them get there. 
I think we've taken our experience on how to help advertisers migrate to right 
places and have been able to do that even more quickly in new formats like Stories. 
So of our more than 7 million advertisers, we already have 3 million advertising 
across Facebook, Instagram, and Messenger Stories. 
And I think that's because we learned that we have to do a lot to help them move. 
So for example, advertisers can now buy stories across Facebook, Instagram, and 
Messenger all at once. We've had automatic default templates, which convert your 
feed ads into vertical stories format. 
And this quarter, we just launched customizable templates, which help you save 
time and resources. So as we have to help advertisers move, we've learned how to 
14
make those investments and making the formats really easy, the measurement 
really easy, the buying really easy. 
Now the mix to Stories is a big opportunity for us. Stories still don't monetize at the 
same rate as a News Feed right now. So we're keeping an eye on that, but the 
growth over the long run is pretty exciting. And I think our ability to help people 
migrate is something that we're able to prove out quarter-over-quarter. 
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Mark Mahaney from RBC Capital 
Markets. 
Mark Mahaney: Mark, what would you -- who would you want to add to the Board? Or what sort of 
voice would you want to add to the Board that would be particularly helpful for you 
and the company now? 
And then, David, could you talk about that Stories monetization gap, to what extent 
it's closing, the rate at which it's closing? Thank you.
David Wehner: I can take the Stories monetization gap first and give Mark a second. So on that, I 
think what we're continuing to see with Stories monetization is that is a product 
that's experiencing a lot of impression growth. 
And whenever we have a product that's experiencing high-impression growth, that 
puts pressure on the auction in terms of price. And we've also seen good impression 
growth on the feed side as well. 
So if you noted in the commentary when I talked about the drivers of impression 
growth, I listed feed impressions from Facebook first. So I think that's also showing 
good growth. So I'd say, overall, not a big change in the gap there. 
And overall, the impression growth is really the story for Stories, and will remain the 
story, we think, for the near future. So that will not be a price-driven revenue 
growth story, but rather an impression growth revenue growth story. 
Mark Zuckerberg: Yes. And on Board members, look, there are a lot of great leaders who serve on our 
Board, who have served on our Board. It's been an incredible benefit in running the 
company. 
15
We face a very wide range of issues here from really hard technological problems to 
issues scaling large organizations to, of course, a lot of now major regulatory and 
social issues. 
And having different people who have different perspectives, who can help us 
navigate that and provide both advice and oversight to make sure that we're doing a 
good job is really important. 
And I just want to add one more time, Sue really did an amazing job on our Board, 
and I'm sad to see her go. And she has really helped shape a lot of what we do. And 
I'm just incredibly grateful for everything that she did here. 
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Lloyd Walmsley from Deutsche Bank. 
Lloyd Walmsley: Thanks, two questions, if I can. First, you mentioned a little bit earlier the OFA 
feature that you rolled out this quarter in just a few markets. So can you give us a 
sense of what you're seeing in terms of early user response to this, how it may be 
impacting targeting in those markets? 
And then secondly, you've disclosed on occasion kind of daily search query volumes. 
You're now expanding that inventory more into search. So wondering if you can give 
us an updated sense of query volumes and then how we should think about ad 
coverage ramping over time within search given a lot of the searches on the 
platform today are people searches and how we should think about that? Thanks. 
David Wehner: Sure, Lloyd. I'll take those. In terms of the OFA rollout, we initially launched that in 
August, and we've been continuing to slowly roll that out globally. And we'll be 
doing that over the next several months through the end of the year, and we're 
rolling it out globally on a percentage basis. 
We've seen a positive reception to having this feature as an option. It’s too early to 
share adoption, and we'll just have to see kind of over time how that gets picked up 
and how that gets adopted, but I think too early to really share much about it. 
In terms of search, we are showing ads in Marketplace in FB search results. But 
really, the vast majority of searches on Facebook are for people, not topics related 
to retail or e-commerce. So it's very early days, and from a revenue perspective, it's 
not material at this point. 
16
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Youssef Squali from SunTrust. 
Youssef Squali: Thank you very much. Two questions for me as well. Mark, with GDPR now over a 
year old, how has it impacted your business relative to your own expectations? And 
how does that inform your views about the potential impacts from CCPA in 2020? 
And then on VR, it seems like your vision has taken a bit longer than expected to 
materialize. Can you speak to the gating factors there? And do you feel that now 
that Quest is at $400, and there seems to be a lot more content out there, we're 
going to see potentially an acceleration in adoption? Thank you.
David Wehner: Youssef, I'll take the question -- I think it was about GDPR and how that's gone 
relative to expectations. We've seen adoptions around people who are opting out of 
allowing us to use context from the apps. 
And so I'd say that that was largely within the range of expectations that we saw, 
and it is having an impact, and the people who are opting out are seeing less 
relevant ads. And obviously, that will impact the -- both the, I think, the quality of 
the experience in terms of the ads they get and also the monetization for us. 
So I think that is kind of playing out as we expected. CCPA, I think, is still a work in 
progress. So we're watching the developments on that closely. That's the California 
Consumer Privacy Act, and that has many similar provisions to GDPR, but it's a 
different law ad we're going to have to watch how that evolves. But we do think 
that that's a factor that we're watching closely. And we'll have to see how to see 
how that develops. I think, Mark, the question was on Oculus. 
Mark Zuckerberg: Sure. And I'll also just add something on privacy. I think it's very important that 
there is federal privacy legislation. GDPR encodes a lot of important principles. 
And in order for businesses to be able to operate, especially startups to get started 
and keep the market competitive, you want to make sure that there aren't 50 
different regulatory frameworks that companies need to follow.
I mean we could handle that if we needed to, we're a big company. But in terms of 
for the market overall, I just think it would be a lot better if we had a very clear set 
17
of rules at the federal level on privacy. So we'll continue trying to work with folks to 
try to do what we can to help there. 
On VR and AR, you're right that this is taking a bit longer than we thought. And I'm 
still optimistic. I think that the long-term vision and the reasons why I thought this 
was going to be important and big are unchanged. So we're seeing a lot of people 
use these products and love them. And because of that, I think that we're still going 
to get there. 
Obviously, the fact that it's taking a little longer than we'd thought, it cuts both 
ways. On the one hand, that, of course, means that the future might be a few years 
further out and that it might be more expensive to develop because we'll be funding 
this for a bit longer until it gets there. 
But on the other hand, from our perspective, we're not a company that has 
traditionally done hardware or built operating systems or these kind of products. So 
every year that we get to practice and get better and build our brand around Oculus 
in terms of in terms of building the best products that we can in the space, I just 
think that we're going to be better off when this is really ready to be a completely 
mainstream thing with hundreds of millions of people using it. 
You're right that Quest is growing and doing quite well. We are -- we're selling them 
as fast as we can make them. The demand has been strong, and the content is 
starting to pick up, both on the AAA really high-quality side and some of the Indy 
stuff that I think is quite good. I'm just -- I'm very excited about what we're seeing 
and very optimistic about the future. 
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Ross Sandler from Barclays. 
Ross Sandler: Great. So guys, just a question on the 2020 rev outlook calling for a more modest 
deceleration. So Dave, I guess, what are some of the headwinds, tailwinds that you 
might see in 2020 that would cause the deceleration? 
Is this a function of lapping some of the impression acceleration you're seeing now 
in some of these innovations that you've had in '19? Or is there things like the 
drying up of the late-stage VC funding market and some of those companies 
potentially coming back on their marketing plans, is that a material factor? 
18
What are some of the other headwinds for next year? And then one housekeeping 
question. Is the Q4 mid- to high single-digit decel, is that referring to constant FX 
growth rate? Or is that a reported U.S. dollar growth rate that you're expecting the 
decel from? Thank you.
David Wehner: Yes. Sure, Ross. The -- it's a reported number that we're giving that on a mid- to high 
single-digit deceleration from the reported growth rate. I don't think there's going 
to be huge difference in them, but we're giving it on a reported basis. 
So in terms of the deceleration, we continue to expect deceleration into 2020, but it 
will be, we believe, more moderated. And the reasons for that, that we expect a 
deceleration, we do continue to see these ad-targeting related headwinds, which 
have been playing out slowly, but we think are still in front of us. 
The majority of potential signal loss on targeting is still in front of us. And that's the 
three factors that I cited, the regulatory landscape, potential platform changes and 
then the adoption of our own products like OFA that we're just rolling out now. 
So all of those will play into potential deceleration of revenue growth in 2020. And 
obviously, we're lapping what's been good performance in 2019 where we've made 
a lot of product improvements and growing off a large base. 
So I think we are experiencing deceleration from that perspective. The specific sort 
of high-level of deceleration going into Q4, we're citing the specific optimizations 
that we're lapping in Q4, which were more significant. 
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs. 
Heather Bellini: Great. I just wanted to go back to the opening remarks about the 35,000 people, I 
think you mentioned, that you have working on safety and that you're spending 
more. I think your budget for this area, you said, is more than it was back when you 
went public in 2012, so maybe about $5 billion. 
I was just was wondering if you could share with us your view on how much you're 
using. You talked us your view on about AI in the past being helpful here. How long 
does this have to be as resource-intensive from a people perspective? 
19
Or do you see the ability over time with technologies like AI potentially helping you 
to get more leverage out of this existing budget? So maybe you don't have to 
continue to ramp it as quickly as your user base and engagement continues to 
grow? Thank you.
Mark Zuckerberg: Sure. So over time, we may not have to ramp it as much, but I don't foresee any 
time in the near future that AI is going to make it so that this -- the cost comes 
down. 
In general, what we have to have to do is we use computers and AI for what they're 
good for, which is looking at a lot of content very quickly and making quick 
judgments. And we have teams of people doing what people are good for, which is 
making nuanced human judgments. 
And as you build the computer system, so that way they can flag and get rid of some 
of the worst stuff, and so they can flag for human review, some of the stuff that is 
border line. And then there's just so much content flowing through the system that 
we do need a lot of people looking at this. And I don't think that that's going to 
change anytime soon. 
David Wehner: And Heather, I would add that when you're using systems to look at content, when 
using AI and machine learning systems, it's a real benefit to have actual people 
looking and tagging that content, classifying it because it helps those machine 
learning algorithms be able to learn what they're looking at. 
So you actually have -- we do have -- actually ramp in people who are doing the 
tagging and classification. So there's actually expense related to AI that's on the 
human side in the near and medium term as well. 
So, very much in line with what Mark said. Over time, it's an opportunity to maybe 
slow down the growth, but it's not going to change the dynamics in the near term. 
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Colin Sebastian from Baird. 
Colin Sebastian: Thank you. Mark, maybe a bigger picture question. I'm wondering how you think 
about the increase in scrutiny or oversight impacting your, or the company's, ability 
to explore new services, new markets, and ultimately remain competitive? 
20
Or is that not really a factor at this point? And then on payments related to the 
WhatsApp test, I'm just wondering how far off in the distance do you think we are 
from seeing a connected payments ecosystem across the family of apps? And do the 
growing pains for Libra impact the timing of that? Thank you.
Mark Zuckerberg: Sure. So look, I think some of what you might be asking about are the antitrust 
questions that are out there in the investigations. And I could talk a bit about this, if 
it's helpful. 
I mean, look, I think a lot of the antitrust questions that are out there that are going 
to be about our acquisition of Instagram, right, and some of the -- how that might 
affect other things that we do today, but there's going to be a lot of scrutiny of that 
acquisition in particular. 
And so I think if it's helpful, I'll go back to what it was like at the time at the time 
there, when we did that acquisition, just to kind of lay out lay out how we were 
thinking about this. And at the time, of course, in some ways, we considered 
Instagram to be a competitor, but we've always thought that the better way to think 
about Instagram was that it was -- it's complementary to Facebook and what we're 
doing. 
Back in 2012, people generally didn't think of Instagram as competing with our core 
service. We thought about Instagram in the context of this new mobile camera 
space that was complementary. If you remember, back then, we were building the 
Facebook camera app. 
There were lots of different services. There is the Camera Plus, VSCO Cam, 
Socialcam, Viddy, Snapseed. They're even apps like Path. They were all in the same 
space. We thought the mobile photos were going to be important. 
So we were competing there with things like Facebook camera, but we ultimately 
thought that we were going to do better work if we were building with Instagram. 
But if you remember at the time, Instagram was focused on helping people take 
photos, apply creative filters, and share them publicly across different social 
networks, including Facebook, right? 
21
It wasn't a full-featured social network itself. It only had about 30 million people 
using it at the time. And I remember specifically, Kevin and I set a goal that we 
hoped that one day, Instagram might reach 100 million people. And I know that, 
that seems quaint today compared to how well it's done. 
But remember that a lot of the other services that were Instagram's peers, and were 
growing quickly at the time, including start-ups with strong teams and very talented 
founders like Path, don't really even exist today anymore. 
So look, I mean, at the end of the day, the FTC makes its judgment on what we can 
do. The FTC had all this context when they made this decision in 2012. And the 
reality is, it ends up being a lot more complementary than I think we ever expected. 
But look, I mean, building services like this is hard, right? 
Instagram wouldn't be what it is today without Kevin and Mike who are just really 
incredible product leaders and, of course, did a lot of amazing work, but it also 
wouldn't be what it is without everything that we put into it. 
And whether that's the infrastructure or our advertising model or spam and safety 
services and a lot more. And I know it can be really hard, given how well things have 
gone to look back and remember what the world was like at the time that we made 
this acquisition, but our outlook was really different then, and the outcome was not 
at all guaranteed. 
So look, I mean, I think for all the concern about whether there's enough 
competition, the space today continues to be incredibly competitive. We have 
different competitors in the space today like Snapchat, which shows that people are 
always building new ideas. 
And on mobile phones, of course, remember that both Apple and Google has built 
cameras and private photo sharing and photo management directly into their 
operating system. So that kind of gives you a picture of how we think about some of 
the scrutiny that's coming and just how we think about doing these things in 
general. 
Operator: Your next question…
Mark Zuckerberg: There was also a question about Commerce? 
22
David Wehner: Yes. Sorry. Yes. How far off is a connected Commerce eco -- payments ecosystem? 
Mark Zuckerberg: Well, I mean, we're doing a lot of stuff around Commerce. I mean it's -- we have 
Facebook Marketplace is probably the most advanced. And hundreds of millions of 
people use that to buy and sell things. Instagram Shopping, of course, a lot earlier, 
but we're very optimistic about it. 
But optimistic on the time frame of years, right, not driving next quarter's business. 
And then in terms of payments, there's multiple approaches that we're taking there. 
We're, of course, working on payments in WhatsApp. We have our tests going in 
India. It's -- the test really shows that a lot of people are going to want to use this 
product. 
We're very optimistic that we're going to be able to launch to everyone in India 
soon. But of course, we'll share more news when we have that. And we also 
differentiate between payment systems that are built on top of the existing financial 
infrastructure like what we're trying to do with WhatsApp payments or when we 
make payments in Instagram Shopping, and our work with something like Libra that 
is trying to build some new technological infrastructure for financial services. 
So they're working on different things. If Libra works, then it will be able to make it 
so that certain kind of payments, whether they're micro payments or remittances 
across borders, will be able to be done much faster and much more affordably than 
can happen today on top of existing rails. 
So I remain optimistic that we'll be able to do work there, but we're just working 
across a lot of different fronts here because this is a huge space. It's one of the areas 
that I am the most excited and optimistic about for the years ahead. There's a lot to 
do, which is why we have a lot of different projects that we're trying to push 
forward here. 
Deborah Crawford: Operator, we have time for one last question. 
Operator: Your last question comes from the line of Michael Nathanson from 
MoffettNathanson. 
23
Michael Nathanson: Thanks. Let me ask one of Mark, one of Dave. So Mark, I remember a couple of 
quarters ago, we asked you about the embracing of maybe paying for news, it looks 
like you've looks like you've struck some deals with some publishers. Can you talk a 
bit about that pivot and what the rationale is and maybe how big is that vision for 
any news? 
And then for Dave, there's a report tonight about Cognizant, who, I guess, has been 
one of the Facebook screeners, ahead of AI, is dropping the contract. Do you expect 
to bring that job in-house or is that a third-party outsourcing opportunity? 
Mark Zuckerberg: Do you want to do that, and then I'll wrap on the other? 
David Wehner: Yes, sure. Yes. Thanks, Michael. No plans to bring that in-house. We obviously have 
a lot people of in-house who work with the third parties on that front, but we have 
a wide variety of different partners beyond Cognizant who work with us. 
So there's no change in model planned on that front, but we continue to obviously 
invest heavily in that work, and we'll continue to work with other partners in that 
space. 
Mark Zuckerberg: All right. So on news, there were two things that I'm quite excited about here. One 
is just building a dedicated product space for high-quality news. And the second is 
having a business partnership with news publishers that I think can be sustainable 
over the long term. 
So I'll talk a bit about both of them and why I think they're important. We'll start 
with the product, which is if you look at the Facebook app overall, for a lot of years, 
the app was synonymous with News Feed, right, the main tab in the app. And of 
course, everyone who uses Facebook pretty much uses News Feed. 
And one of the questions that we had was there were, of course, a lot of things that 
some people want to do, but not everyone. And we weren't sure if we were going to 
be able to build secondary tabs in the app that could be meaningful even if most 
people didn't use them. 
24
But we started building things like Marketplace. There's a tab that -- and even if the 
majority of people on Facebook don't use it, it's still hundreds of millions of people 
are using it. So that's really valuable. 
And we built Watch. We're seeing a similar trend there. It took us a little while to 
really get it to work the way that we wanted, but now it's growing quickly. That's 
going to be hundreds of millions of people are using it. We rolled out Facebook 
Dating. 
I don't know if that'll be many hundreds of millions of people, just because of the 
size of that market, but it's going to be very useful for tens of millions of people 
around the world, maybe 100 million or more. 
And there will be course, doing this with groups. And there will be opportunities to 
do this in other places, including with news. So I think in the future, if this works out, 
what we're going to see is that how people use the Facebook app is going to be --
they're going to keep on using news feed, they're going to keep on sharing with 
friends and family, but the average person will also probably have one, two or three 
other apps or kind of secondary tabs that they use that are quite useful for them in 
connecting with their broader community on Facebook, but those things that each 
individual uses are going to vary from person to person. 
So it's not going to be that everyone is using News Feed, they're going to have --
different people are going to care about different things, whether it's community, or 
marketplace for some or dating or news for others. 
And surely, even though not everyone comes to Facebook because they want highquality news, I believe that there are going to be, whether it's 10% or 20%, at a floor 
who I think would really want something like this, and we're going to work with the 
news publishers to make this very valuable. 
And I'm optimistic that we can get there. So that's the kind of the product strategy 
on the Facebook side. For news publishers, the thing that I'm excited about is, look, I 
do think that we have a responsibility to help work with news publishers to fund 
high-quality journalism. 
25
It's no secret that the Internet has disrupted the business model for journalism. And 
I think that that means that the major Internet platforms have a responsibility to 
form partnerships and help to fund this work. 
And the challenge that we've had historically is that when most of the usage of the 
app was a News Feed, what our community told us is that they really wanted more 
content from friends and family and less other stuff, right, so less public videos, less 
of the other content besides friends and families. 
So even though we were talking to a lot of news publishers, and we wanted to find a 
way to support and they, of course, wanted more distribution and some kind of 
financial relationship, it didn't really make a lot of sense in the past to pay for 
content that a lot of our community was generally telling us that they want to see 
other stuff instead of that. 
But now with the dedicated News tab, we finally have a space where the business 
model for it really works for us to be in a long-term sustainable financial relationship 
with news publishers where we can pay them for high-quality content that can go in 
there, that'll be what fuels the tab and makes it a great product. 
And I think in doing so, this can be a long-term virtuous cycle and sustainable 
business model in a way that we can help support journalism, and I'm really happy 
to do this. 
Deborah Crawford: Great. Thank you. Thank you all for joining us today. We appreciate your time, and 
we look forward to speaking with you again. 
Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for joining 
us. You may now disconnect your lines.