1
Facebook, Inc. (FB)
Third Quarter 2018 Results Conference Call
October 30th, 2018
Operator 
Good afternoon. My name is Mike and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like 
to welcome everyone to the Facebook third quarter 2018 Earnings conference Call. All lines have been 
placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question 
and answer session. If you would like to ask a question during that time, please press star then the 
number 1 on your telephone keypad. This call will be recorded. Thank you very much.
Ms. Deborah Crawford, Facebook’s Vice President of Investor Relations, you may begin.
Deborah Crawford, VP Investor Relations
Thank you. Good afternoon and welcome to Facebook’s third quarter 2018 earnings conference call. 
Joining me today to discuss our results are Mark Zuckerberg, CEO; Sheryl Sandberg, COO; and Dave 
Wehner, CFO. 
Before we get started, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that our remarks today will 
include forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by 
these forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are set forth in today’s press release, and in 
our quarterly report on form 10-Q filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make on 
this call are based on assumptions as of today and we undertake no obligation to update these 
statements as a result of new information or future events. 
During this call we may present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP 
to non-GAAP measures is included in today’s earnings press release. The press release and an 
accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at investor.fb.com.
And now, I’d like to turn the call over to Mark.
Mark Zuckerberg, CEO
Thanks Deborah, and thank you all for joining us today. We had a solid quarter, and our community and 
business continue to grow quickly. 2.3 billion people now use Facebook every month, and 1.5 billion 
every day. Revenue grew 33% year-over-year to $13.7 billion.
Last quarter, for the first time, we also shared the number of people who use at least one of our apps 
each month. We believe this is a better way to measure our community over time because so many 
people use more than one of our apps. There are now more than 2.6 billion people using Facebook, 
WhatsApp, Instagram, or Messenger each month, up from around 2.5 billion last quarter. And now, on 
average, more than 2 billion people use at least one of our services every day.
2
Today I want to talk about our strategy overall as we navigate challenges and opportunities on several 
fronts. For one, we're seeing the way people connect shifting to private messaging and stories. We have 
great products here that people love, but it will take some time for our business to catch up to our 
community growth. Two, we're seeing video grow dramatically across the ecosystem, and while Watch 
is now growing very quickly, we're well behind YouTube and still working to make this a unique peoplecentric experience. Three, we continue to face increased safety and security threats. We have 
significantly improved our systems here, but we have more to do.
Let's start with messaging and stories.
Public sharing will always be very important, but people increasingly want to share privately too -- and 
that includes both to smaller audiences with messaging, and ephemerally with stories. People feel more 
comfortable being themselves when they know their content will only be seen by a smaller group and 
when their content won't stick around forever. Messaging and stories make up the vast majority of 
growth in the sharing that we're seeing.
On messaging specifically, we think we've built the best messaging apps in the world. People now send 
around 100 billion messages each day using our services, and even our second most popular service, 
Messenger, has a higher daily message volume than SMS had globally at its peak. And this isn't just text -
people share more photos, videos and links on WhatsApp and Messenger than they do on social 
networks.
We are leading in most countries, but our biggest competitor by far is iMessage, and in important 
countries like the US where the iPhone is strong, Apple bundles iMessage as a default texting app, and 
it’s still ahead. In countries where there's more competition between iOS and Android, like much of 
Europe, people tend to prefer our services.
Now, it's worth noting that one of the main reasons people prefer our services -- especially WhatsApp --
is because of its stronger record on privacy. WhatsApp is completely end-to-end encrypted, does not 
store your messages, and doesn't store the keys to your messages in China or anywhere else. This is 
important because if our systems can't see your messages, then that means governments and bad 
actors won't be able to access them through us either.
Our roadmap focuses on continuing to make WhatsApp and Messenger even simpler, faster, and adding 
basic utility features like payments. We've found that every time we make our services faster and 
simpler, people communicate more. We'll also keep pushing our messaging services to be more private
and secure, and we believe this will continue to be a competitive advantage for us.
On the business side of messaging, our first step has been to enable people to connect with businesses 
organically in ways they find useful, and then the second step is to give businesses additional paid tools 
to increase those interactions. We're well into step one at this point, with more than 3 million accounts 
on WhatsApp Business. We’ll begin step two with a couple of products: paid messaging and ads in 
stories. And by making businesses pay to send messages, we believe it will make them more selective 
with what they send. Payments will make each of these services more useful for people and businesses 
even though we don't plan to profit from it directly. I'll update with more progress on these efforts in 
the next few quarters.
3
On stories, we are even better positioned. People now share more than 1 billion stories every day. We 
lead in almost every country.
There are a couple of reasons we've focused on building stories in all our apps. First, I just think that this 
is the future. People want to share in ways that don't stick around permanently and I want to make sure 
that we fully embraced this. Second, stories is a medium, like feeds, that can feel very different in very 
different contexts. So just like most major social apps have feeds -- including Pinterest, Twitter, or 
LinkedIn -- but you wouldn't say that those services do the same things, I think many services will have 
stories in the future too but will serve different functions.
While this effort is going well, we're also working through a couple of challenges here:
One is that while WhatsApp Status and Instagram Stories immediately took off and have been huge 
successes, Facebook Stories started off slower. It's now growing quickly and I think we'll be in a better 
position soon, but our effort to shift Facebook from News Feed-first to stories-first hasn't been as 
smooth as I'd hoped. But this is important for the Facebook community long term.
Another challenge is that we're earlier in developing our ads products for stories, so we don't make as 
much money from them yet as we do from feed ads. We're following our normal playbook here of 
building out the best consumer products first and focusing on succeeding there before ramping up ads. 
I'm optimistic that we'll get ads in stories to perform as well as feed over time, and that the opportunity 
will be even bigger because it looks like stories will be a bigger medium than feed has been.
But I want to be upfront that even assuming we get to where we want to go -- from a feed-only world to 
a feed-plus-stories world -- it will take some time and our revenue growth may be slower during that 
period, like it was while transitioning our products to mobile.
Now, talking about messaging and stories raises the question of what's the future of our feed products 
and the Facebook app overall.
On feeds specifically, people continue to use them heavily -- and we don't expect that to decrease. From 
a business perspective, feeds will drive the majority of our growth over the next couple of years, at least 
until stories become an even bigger driver.
On the Facebook app overall, what we see is that we are generally stable although we may be close to 
saturated in developed countries, while we continue to grow quickly in developing countries. 
For a few years, we saw a trend where people's time spent was increasing primarily because they were 
consuming more video and public content even as they interacted with friends and family less. But 
people were telling us what they wanted was to interact with people more, so we didn't think this trend 
was sustainable. We've made a number of changes this year to focus the product on meaningful social 
interactions, and those generally seem to be working. That means the trends in how people are 
interacting have improved, even though we've purposefully reduced time spent on things like lowerquality viral videos and news to achieve this. 
While there's a lot to do to improve News Feed, our roadmap for the Facebook app is very focused on a 
few priorities: stories, which we've discussed, video, which I'll get to in a moment, and a much bigger 
focus on communities and groups. 
4
If the last 10 years have been about friends and family, then the next 10 years will be about your 
communities as well. When we say communities, we mean both helping people connect with people 
who share their interests -- which is a major need in people's lives -- and also building out specific 
services for bringing people closer together -- like helping you find someone to date, or find a job, or buy 
and sell things, or grow your small business, or create an event, or start fundraisers, or bring together a 
group to volunteer. 
A lot of these services are growing quickly. Hundreds of millions of people now belong to meaningful 
communities that are a central part of their social support structure. Marketplace is now used by 800 
million people -- and is emerging as one of the most popular places to buy vehicles online. On jobs, our 
new tool has helped people find more than 1 million jobs. On fundraisers, in the last year we've helped 
people raise more than $300 million for charities on their birthdays alone. And I'm looking forward to 
rolling out dating across the world soon too. These are services that generally benefit from having 
everyone you know connected on a single platform. And while people may not spend as much time in 
some of these tools as in News Feed, these are very high-value activities for our community.
We're seeing a similar dynamic in Instagram, where there's still a lot to improve in feed, but we're 
increasingly focused on other experiences as well. But in Instagram, instead of focusing on communities 
we're very focused on helping you explore your interests. This will take the form of IGTV, which I'll 
discuss more in a minute, plus new shopping experiences, and really building out Explore. These areas 
have huge potential for serving our community, and a lot of potential for businesses as well. For 
example, Explore is already about 20% of the time that people spend in Instagram. But unlike feed, we 
haven't built any ads experience for it yet, so that’s an opportunity.
Now, I want to discuss what we're seeing with video specifically since it's such an important and growing 
area.
Our efforts have grown but we've had challenges reconciling all this passive video consumption with 
what people uniquely want from us, which is meaningful social interactions. Video has grown a lot on 
our services, but as I mentioned earlier, we hit a dynamic where when it grows in feeds in Facebook and 
Instagram, it displaces some social interactions and people tell us it makes the experience less valuable, 
even though they're spending more time on it.
So the solution to this has been building separate video experiences outside of our feeds, with Watch on 
Facebook and IGTV on Instagram. What we've found is that when people seek out video experiences 
intentionally, they don't displace social interactions as much, and the quality of the experience is 
generally higher. We've also been able to build experiences that help creators build communities around 
their content -- which fits our mission and our focus to encourage meaningful interactions.
At this point, Watch has really hit its stride and it’s growing incredibly quickly -- about 3x in the last few 
months in the US alone. IGTV is still earlier in its development, but I think we have a good sense of how 
to make it work as well. To be clear, these services are still well behind YouTube, which is our primary 
competitor in this space, but they're growing very quickly.
That said, beyond the mission challenges of video displacing social interactions, there's also a business 
challenge, which is that video monetizes significantly less well per minute than people interacting in 
feeds. So this means that even though we've made video more community-oriented and minimized 
5
displacement of social interactions, as video grows it will still displace some other services where we'd 
probably make more money.
From a mission and a business perspective, we still believe this is the right thing to do. Video is a critical 
part of the future, it's what our community wants, and as long as we can make it social I think it will end 
up being a large part of our business as well.
Next, I want to talk about safety and security. 
Let me start by saying that last month we had a serious security issue. Our teams did well to find and 
close the vulnerability quickly, but we have a long road ahead to prevent these kinds of attacks in the 
future.
Over the last couple of years, though, we've done a lot of work and made a lot of progress. We still have 
at least a year before our systems are at the level that we want, but they're getting better every day –
and that's both technology and people. Our systems for proactively identifying harmful content are 
improving. Our systems for detecting interference in elections are a lot more mature now.
The upcoming elections will be a real test of the protections we've put in place. With a community of 
more than two billion people we will see all the good and bad that humanity can do, and we will never 
be perfect, but I'm proud of the work that we’re doing here. We've reduced the incentives to spread 
misinformation. We're partnering more closely with governments and outside experts to improve 
security -- including here in the US. And we've set a new standard for transparency in advertising. This 
quarter alone, we've found and taken down foreign influence campaigns from Russia and Iran 
attempting to interfere in the US, UK, Middle East and elsewhere -- as well as groups in Brazil that have 
been active in their own country.
We still have a lot of work to do in all of these areas that I’ve talked about. News Feed continues to be 
very important. We're building the best messaging and stories and community tools in the world. Our 
video services are getting better and growing quickly. We still have a lot of work to do on safety. And 
we're also heavily investing in AR and VR, as well as hardware for bringing people closer together -- like 
Portal for video presence, and Oculus Quest, the all-in-one VR experience that delivers Rift-like quality 
with no wires attached.
With all of this ahead, I expect 2019 to be another year of significant investment. Dave will say more 
about this in a moment. But I want you to know that looking out beyond 2019 I know that we need to 
make sure our costs and revenue are better matched over time, and that's something that I'm focused 
on as well.
Overall, this has been an important year. It's been a tough year, but we've built products that I'm proud 
of and made a lot of progress on some of our hardest issues. As always, I appreciate your support and 
thank you for being part of this journey with us.
And now, here's Sheryl.
6
Sheryl Sandberg, COO
Hi everyone. It was another good quarter for our business, with ad revenue up 33% year over year. Our 
growth was broad-based across regions, marketer segments, and verticals. Mobile ad revenue grew 40% 
to $12.5 billion, making up approximately 92% of our total ad revenue. 
Since Facebook launched its first ad products, we’ve been in the business of growing our clients’ 
businesses — from the largest brands in the world to the entrepreneur in her living room. Over 90 
million businesses rely on Facebook Pages to reach potential customers for free. In a global survey, half 
of small businesses with a presence on Facebook said that they are hiring because of growth they’re 
able to achieve through our platform. More than 6 million advertisers are active across Facebook, 
Instagram and our other services. With more than 2 billion people using at least one of our services 
every day, we’re the best place for these advertisers to show people ads that work.
We know that our continued growth depends upon maintaining the trust of the people who use our 
services and earning our clients’ business each and every day in a very competitive environment. Every 
time I meet with clients I tell them that we want to be the best minute and the best dollar, euro or peso 
they spend. As we look ahead to 2019 and beyond, we’re focused on continuing to build our clients’ 
businesses and ours by helping advertisers reach consumers where they are and making ads better. 
First, helping advertisers connect with people where they are. 
Consumers often adopt new technologies before businesses do. Our competitive advantage is helping 
advertisers close that gap. We’ve done this before – on desktop, mobile, and News Feed. In the early 
days, we helped businesses deliver personalized marketing at scale on desktop. With the shift to mobile, 
we’ve helped companies large and small build their mobile presence. Now we’re doing it again with 
Stories, messaging, Marketplace and Watch. 
Today, the primary way advertisers are reaching people on our services is through Facebook News Feed 
and Instagram feed. Feed ads on Facebook and Instagram represent the majority of our revenue growth 
and the majority of opportunities for marketers to generate ROI. Quarter after quarter, we make 
improvements that help advertisers use Feed ads to launch new products, find new customers, build 
awareness, and increase sales — all in a highly efficient way. We’re always working to enable more 
marketers to achieve their goals through mobile feed, and we see continued opportunity here going 
forward.
At the same time, as Mark mentioned, more and more consumers are using Stories and private 
messaging, in addition to the time they spend in News Feed and Instagram Feed. Because our services 
share a common platform, advertisers can use the same tools to buy across all our ad surfaces. Building 
on the strength of ads in Instagram Stories, we rolled out ads in Facebook Stories in Q3 and announced 
plans to introduce ads in WhatsApp Status next year. 
7
We know it’s not enough to make a new format available. We also need to make it easy for advertisers 
to optimize their campaigns. In Q3 we improved how ads from News Feed look in Stories. This is 
important for advertisers like Pandora, which uses Facebook and Instagram to reach potential listeners. 
Previously, they would buy Instagram Story ads separately and develop unique creative each time. Now, 
with Automatic Placements, our technology converts their horizontal video and captions from Facebook 
into a design that looks native to the vertical Instagram Stories format. For Pandora, this resulted in a 
10% lower cost per view than their standalone campaigns — simply by checking a box in our ad tool.
When it comes to messaging, we have an opportunity to help people and businesses connect in ways 
that are valuable for both. On Messenger, over 10 billion messages are sent between people and 
businesses every month. It’s still early, but we’re exploring how we can help advertisers reach people in 
Messenger through Sponsored Messages and Inbox Ads. For WhatsApp, we’re growing our business 
ecosystem, starting with the WhatsApp Business app on Android. In August we launched the WhatsApp 
Business API to help larger companies send useful information such as boarding passes or delivery 
confirmations. This paid messaging model will ensure that companies are selective about what they 
send and don’t clutter people’s chats. As always, people will be able to block any business they want 
with one tap. As we build a business on WhatsApp we’re determined to maintain the simple, private 
user experience that people love.
That’s also true for Marketplace and Watch. Last year we started allowing advertisers to extend their 
News Feed ads to Marketplace, helping businesses reach people where they already shop. In Q3 we 
expanded Marketplace ads to nearly 70 markets. It’s early days but advertisers are seeing good results. 
With Facebook Watch, we’ve been working closely with advertisers to better fit their current planning 
and buying process for video. In Q3, we introduced a way for advertisers to buy video placements from a 
selection of the most engaging publishers, choose specific content categories they want their ads to play
alongside, and pay only for ads that are watched to the end. Again, it’s still early, but we’re pleased with 
advertiser interest and results so far.
We have a big opportunity to help our large and growing advertiser base expand to new platforms and 
formats to reach potential customers. Our service makes it possible for every business to access the 
same tools as the largest brands. We start by making it simple for small businesses to transition from 
using our consumer apps to using our business tools, and then we make it easy to run more 
sophisticated campaigns. This has been true every step of our journey so far – from online to mobile, 
and now for messaging and Stories. In the future, this will include opportunities with the new VR/AR 
platforms that we’re creating as well.
We’re also focused on making ads better. 
One of the top things people tell us about our ads is that they want them to be relevant. We create 
value for people when we show ads they are likely to find useful, for advertisers when we deliver ads to 
the right audience, and for our own business by performing this match effectively. 
8
Our business model is, and always has been, to connect people and businesses with relevant marketing 
messages without sharing people’s personal information. Protecting people’s privacy is incredibly 
important because people and businesses will only use our services if they feel Facebook can be trusted 
and if sharing on our platform is safe. That’s why we’re making significant ongoing investments to better 
protect privacy and security. In Q3, we completed the shutdown of Partner Categories and tightened 
our standards for Custom Audiences. These changes help protect people’s privacy and ensure that 
advertisers have more oversight of the information they use for advertising. 
We also continue to invest heavily in technology and people to remove bad content as quickly as 
possible and prevent it from going up in the first place – while giving advertisers more control over 
where their ads are placed. This quarter, we added more tools for advertisers to see where their ads 
might appear in Audience Network, Instant Articles, and in-stream placements like Watch. They can 
block their ads from running in videos or articles from certain publishers or categories of content and 
review all of their placements at the end of each campaign. 
Making ads better also means increasing efficiency for advertisers. In Q3, we expanded campaign 
budget optimization so advertisers of all sizes can now can set a single budget and our system 
automatically finds the best opportunities across each of those segments. Improvements like this add up 
and help businesses maximize the value they’re getting from our products over time. This is critical for 
small businesses that don’t have large advertising budgets or expertise, and it’s an important way we 
support economic growth and job creation around the world.
As we wrap up the year, I want to thank our clients for their partnership and their continued feedback, 
which helps us improve. And I also want to thank our teams at Facebook for helping these businesses 
reach their customers and grow. 
And now, here’s Dave. 
David Wehner, CFO
Thanks Sheryl and good afternoon everyone. 
Let’s start with our community metrics. 
Daily active users on Facebook reached 1.49 billion, up 9% compared to last year, led by growth in India, 
Indonesia, and the Philippines. This number represents approximately 66% of the 2.27 billion monthly 
active users in Q3. MAUs were up 199M or 10% compared to last year.
Note that our Q3 2018 community metrics reflect an update to our calculation methodology. This 
resulted in the removal of a small percentage of accounts, or approximately 15 million DAU and 9 
million MAU worldwide. This change will modestly impact our year-over-year user growth rates until we 
lap it next year. Further details are included in the earnings slides on our IR website.
9
Turning now to the financials.
All comparisons are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted. 
Q3 revenue was $13.7 billion, up 33% or 34% on a constant currency basis. Had foreign exchange rates 
remained constant compared to last year, Q3 total revenue would have been $159 million higher.
Q3 total ad revenue was $13.5 billion, up 33% or 35% on a constant currency basis. 
In terms of regional ad growth, Asia Pacific was strongest at 38% followed by Europe and North America 
at 34% and 33% respectively. Rest of World ad growth trailed at 26% due to both currency weakness 
and economic challenges in Latin America. 
Mobile ad revenue was $12.5 billion, up 40%, and represented approximately 92% of total ad revenue.
In Q3, the average price per ad increased 7% and the number of ad impressions served across our 
services increased 25%, driven primarily by Feed Ads on Instagram and Facebook. Our impression 
growth in Q3 came primarily from product surfaces and geographies that monetize at relatively lower 
rates. For example, ads in Instagram Stories contributed to our impression growth this quarter, although 
these ads currently monetize at lower rates compared to Feed Ads. 
Payments & Other Fees revenue was $188 million, up 1%. 
Turning now to expenses. 
Total expenses were $7.9 billion, up 53%.
We ended Q3 with approximately 33,600 full-time employees, that’s up 45%. The majority of our new 
hires in the past year have been in technical functions.
Operating income was $5.8 billion, representing a 42% operating margin.
Our Q3 tax rate was 13%. This was lower than we expected because we did not take the one-time 
charge that we anticipated due to the Ninth Circuit court withdrawing its decision in the Altera case.
Net income was $5.1 billion or $1.76 per share. 
Capital expenditures were $3.3 billion, driven by investments in data centers, servers, network 
infrastructure, and office facilities. 
10
In Q3, we generated $4.2 billion in free cash flow and ended the quarter with approximately $41.2 
billion in cash and investments. 
In the third quarter, we bought back approximately $4.3 billion of our Class A common stock.
Turning now to the revenue outlook. 
In Q4, we expect that our total revenue growth rate will decelerate by a mid-to-high single digit 
percentage compared to our Q3 total revenue growth rate. 
Several factors are contributing to this deceleration. 
• First, we expect more of our impression growth to continue to come from product surfaces and 
geographies that monetize at lower rates. 
• Second, we are seeing some impact from data privacy initiatives on pricing growth. 
• And third, as we focus more of our product efforts on the growth of Stories, its more prominent 
placement on Facebook will displace some ad impression opportunities.
Turning now to the expense outlook. 
We anticipate our full-year 2018 total expenses will grow approximately 50-55% versus our prior range 
of 50-60%. 
We expect that full-year 2018 capital expenditures will be approximately $14-$14.5 billion, compared to 
our prior estimate of $15B.
Turning now to tax. At current stock prices, we expect that our Q4 tax rate will be in the mid-teens. As a 
reminder, fluctuations in our stock price will impact our tax rate.
I’d also like to share our initial outlook on 2019 operating expenses and capex. 
As Mark mentioned, we plan to continue to invest aggressively across the business and expect that fullyear 2019 total expenses will grow 40-50% compared to full-year 2018. 
We also expect that full-year 2019 capital expenditures will be approximately $18-$20 billion, driven by 
a continuation of our data center build strategy that seeks to put in place adequate capacity ahead of 
our needs.
We anticipate that our full-year 2019 tax rate will be in the mid-teens.
The third quarter marked a period of both solid revenue growth across the globe and heavy investment 
as we make progress on our mission to bring the world closer together. 
11
We are confident in our ability to improve the products that our community loves as well as to provide 
innovative new experiences in the near and long-term.
With that, Mike, let’s open the call for questions.
Operator: We will now open the lines for a question and answer session. To ask a question, 
press "star" followed by the number "one" on your touch-tone phone. Please pick 
up your handset before asking your question to ensure clarity. If you are streaming 
today's call, please mute your computer speakers.
Your first question comes from the line of Doug Anmuth from JPMorgan.
Douglas Anmuth: Thanks for taking the question. 
I just wanted to ask 2, first for Mark. Was just hoping you could talk a little bit more 
about some of the challenges that you see for Stories within Facebook relative to 
their stronger adoption in Instagram and for WhatsApp status. And then also, what 
if Stories don't gain traction on Facebook over time here? How do you think about 
that for the platform as well? 
And then secondly, for Dave, just on OpEx for '19, the 40 to 50 percent growth. 
Should we think about that as still the same buckets of spend that you've been 
talking about over the last year or so? And does their prioritization change at all for 
next year?
Thanks.
Mark Zuckerberg: Sure, I'll take the first part. 
I think a lot of this is really basic. When I say that we got started slower on 
Facebook, that starts with literally rolling out on Facebook a number of months 
after we had rolled out on either WhatsApp or Instagram. And then the initial 
version of what we shipped, I just think, wasn't as high quality as where it needed to 
be. It wasn't as fast. There were bugs and we've been working on dialing that in. 
I'm less worried at this point about it not working because we're starting to see it 
really take off. Certainly, with different groups of people, it's stronger on Instagram 
or WhatsApp or Facebook. But across all 3 at this point, we're doing -- it's growing. 
12
And as I said in my opening remarks, I think we're going to be a lot better positioned 
here in Facebook in the next year.
David Wehner: Hey, Doug. It's Dave.
Just on 2019 expense growth guide, a lot of that is consistent with what we've been 
talking about as our big investment areas. If you look at just headcount growth in 
the past year, it's up 45 percent. That compensation expense base that we're 
bringing into 2019 is really factoring into the overall growth guidance for the total 
expense guide so that's a big factor there. In addition, we've been investing 
significantly in CapEx, and those investments are starting to flow through the P&L in 
terms of depreciation. And then I'd point to significant investment areas like AR/VR 
efforts, the content ecosystem around video and the ongoing investment in safety 
and security.
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Eric Sheridan from UBS.
Eric Sheridan: Thank you so much.
Maybe one for Sheryl. When you think about some of the friction points you're 
trying to solve for on either the creative side or the selling through side with respect 
to video on stories, maybe you can call out some of the conversations you're having 
with advertisers on how you see some of the moves Facebook can make to solve for 
those friction points looking out to '19 and beyond?
Thanks so much.
Sheryl Sandberg: Thanks for the question.
We have a very large and growing advertiser base, and that gives us, we think, a 
really strong position to get people into new formats. When you do that, a couple of 
things really matter.
One is that the format of an ad really has to match the format of the consumer 
experience. The right ad in News Feed is different than the right ad in an Instagram 
or Facebook Story -- is different than the right ad in Watch, which would be videoonly. And so making these new formats of ads is actually hard for people and 
13
expensive. And so we're working hard on tools to make the formats easier and I 
talked about one of those examples before. 
What's nice is that the same targeting, the same measurement systems really work. 
Because we are looking to show relevant ads to the right person at the right time, 
the systems we have that understand in a privacy protected way what ads people 
are likely to be more interested in -- those work. Whether you're in Stories or 
Watch or Instagram feed or News Feed. 
And the other thing is that our systems for measuring the effectiveness of ads, 
which help advertisers get all the way through to their ROI, which help them bid in 
our system -- also work. And so we take the advertiser base, we take the systems we 
have for targeting and measuring ads, and then we help advertisers move to the 
new format, and I think that's the process we're on.
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley.
Brian Nowak: Thanks for taking my questions. I have 2. 
The first one, last quarter, Dave, you made some comments about a multi-year 
margin outlook. And I appreciate the comment this quarter about sort of 
engagement in the feed, et cetera. Was just curious when you thought about that 
margin outlook, how do you think about the 1 or 2 key drivers of News Feed 
monetization over the next few years, given you expect sort of the flat overall 
engagement?
And then secondly on Watch, Mark, can you just talk about the key 1 to 2 steps you 
need to sort of clear in order to drive higher watch and video engagement to sort of 
catch up with some of the competitors?
Thanks.
David Wehner: Hey, Brian. It's Dave. 
In terms of what we're seeing as opportunities, I mean, we continue to see good 
growth opportunities for revenue across both Facebook and Instagram, including 
both Feed and Stories. I think in terms of impression growth, you're going to have 
more opportunities in Stories, probably more opportunity on Instagram -- but good 
14
revenue growth opportunities in both places. That's obviously what we're looking 
for when we look forward.
Beyond that, I don't have much to update on in terms of any more specific revenue 
outlook.
Mark Zuckerberg: And to the video questions, the biggest thing that we need to do is make sure that
the video experience is people-centric, and that we're helping creaters build a 
community and we're helping people interact with each other. 
Our journey with video has been a little bit funny in that people really want to 
watch a lot of video. And to a large degree, we've had to rate-limit its growth. And 
we need to do the things to -- so we can stop limiting it. The things that have caused 
us to limit it are on the one hand when we see passive consumption of video 
displacing social interactions -- that's not something that we wanted because we 
feel like that's what Facebook is. We build social products that help people interact. 
There are lots of places in the world that you can go to consume content, but we're 
the Internet service that people use to help connect with other people, and we're 
not going to let passive consumption get in the way of that. 
We needed to figure out a way so that video can grow but people can also keep on 
interacting and doing what they tell us that they uniquely want from Facebook. And 
now I think we're starting to work through what the formula is going to be, so we 
can take some of those rate limits off and let video grow at the rate that it wants to. 
I think that's a very exciting opportunity ahead. And that's one of the reasons that 
I'm very optimistic about the Watch growth that we have started to see recently 
about 3x in the last few months in the U.S. alone.
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Justin Post from Bank of America Merrill 
Lynch.
Justin Post: Hey, thank you.
Mark, first on Facebook engagement, there's some questions about usage. And 
when you look at the engagement, did you say it's stable? I think you mentioned 
that earlier. Does that include some of the changes you've made on video earlier in 
the year?
15
And then secondly, some usage may be moving over to Instagram. When you look at 
Facebook plus Instagram, how do you feel about how that usage is trending?
Thank you.
Mark Zuckerberg: Sure. 
I mean, across the whole family of apps, I mean, all of this engagement is growing 
quickly, and we're very happy with how we're enabling people to share. As I said, 
the vast majority or the majority of the growth that we're seeing in sharing is 
coming from private messaging and Stories sharing. That's kind of the big thing. 
The basic story that we've seen on -- within the Facebook app is over the last few 
years, the amount of time that people were spending in the app was increasing 
primarily because people were consuming more public content like passive video 
consumption and news. But it was coming at the expense of people interacting with 
each other as much, so interactions were down. 
And we got a lot of feedback from people saying that's not what they wanted. We 
don't think that that's what we're uniquely here to do; it's not the mission of the 
company. We felt like that was not sustainable. We've made a lot of shifts this year, 
which I've talked about in a bunch of these calls, to encourage more meaningful 
social interactions instead. And we have seen that those changes have improved the 
trajectory of how people are interacting. 
Now, at the same time that we have intentionally reduced time spent on certain 
things like lower-quality viral videos, some news, some passive content, but that's 
what I was talking about when I said that now the trend, you can kind of look at it in 
developed markets and developing. In developed markets, it is stable. And we feel 
like we're pretty close to saturation in a lot of countries like the U.S. And in 
developing countries where a lot of people are still getting on the Internet, it 
continues to grow at a fast rate. 
And there's a -- we think that there's a lot more connecting and community that 
people want there. That's kind of what we're seeing overall. Across the whole 
family, I would say it's very positive. On Facebook overall, I feel like we have a 
handle on what the drivers of this are and we're kind of driving it to be what people 
16
tell as they want and what we think is going to be sustainable over time. But that's 
the picture that we have.
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Ross Sandler from Barclays.
Ross Sandler: Great. Two questions. 
Dave, you mentioned 4Q revenue is going to have a mid- to high single-digit 
deceleration; that's a tad better than what you stated 90 days ago. Just -- I know it's 
a small change but I think folks on the line are looking for anything incremental in 
terms of what you're seeing. Has anything improved? And then any initial read on 
what kind of deceleration we can expect to see in '19, if at all, as you start turning 
on the ads on WhatsApp? 
And then one for Sheryl. The shopping experience on Instagram, how do you 
compare, I guess, just the overall commercial intent on Instagram compared to 
Facebook? And what do you think that says about the long-term monetization 
potential for Instagram versus Facebook?
David Wehner: All right, Ross, I'll start off on that.
I think the outlook that we're giving for Q4 deceleration is broadly consistent with 
the outlook that I gave last quarter with the benefit of a little bit more visibility. I'd 
just reiterate the points that I'd made in the earnings script around what's driving 
that deceleration.
And as far as to how that plays into 2019, we're not providing a specific revenue 
outlook for 2019. We continue to see good growth opportunities across the 
platform on both Facebook and Instagram and Feed and Stories. Those are going to 
be the drivers. I would characterize the launch of Status ads on WhatsApp as being a 
much smaller thing than a driver of 2019 revenue growth, and it's going to be more 
about Instagram and Facebook. 
The same factors that I discussed impacting Q4 growth will likely continue to play 
out, to some extent, in 2019, but we've got a lot of good growth opportunities for 
next year.
17
Sheryl Sandberg: When you look at the Instagram shopping experience, we're seeing some really nice 
growth. We have 90 million people tap to reveal product tags and posts every 
month to learn more about them. And we're putting more investment behind this. 
In Q3, we rolled out shopping in Stories globally and began testing the shopping 
channel in Explore. And so we think the opportunities are big.
As you think about commercial intent in Facebook versus Instagram, there's so 
much activity on both. We think there's a lot of opportunity for people to have 
commercial intent, if not have it when they start but develop it because they see 
things they're interested in -- in both. Instagram can be more interest-based in some 
places than Facebook so there are places in Instagram like fashion or like shopping 
that have very high signal and that gives us, I think, a very strong opportunity there.
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Lloyd Walmsley from Deutsche Bank.
Lloyd Walmsley: Thank you. Two questions if I can. 
First, just Mark, your comments in the prepared remarks on Stories having potential 
to be a bigger medium than News Feed suggests that the engagement is a net 
positive in terms of time spent or sessions per user. Is that the right way to interpret 
that as you see people engage in this, they actually spend more time overall?
And then second question for Dave. Last quarter, you guided to kind of long-term 
operating margins in the mid-30s range. The guidance on OpEx for next year kind of 
implies we may already be there. Should we kind of expect it to be -- is that the right 
interpretation and should we expect it to be kind of stable beyond that based on 
some of the comments from Mark about recognizing that revenue and cost should 
be matched over the long term? Any help you could give there would be great.
Mark Zuckerberg: On Stories, I don't know if we've given any metrics on time spent or anything on that 
side. But what I can say is that all of the trends that we've seen suggest that in the 
not-too-distant future, people will be sharing more into Stories than they will into 
feeds. And that the whole market across all of the Stories type of product will be 
bigger and a market where people are sharing more moments from their days into 
Stories type products than into Feed type products. 
18
And this happened very quickly. This whole trend has been -- is much newer than 
the trend with News Feed and feeds overall. And it continues to grow incredibly 
quickly. We just see that there's a lot of upside there. 
Now, on the flip side, I tried to be very careful in my remarks to be clear, that this is 
one of those situations where the community growth that we're seeing is outpacing 
the progress that we've made so far on developing the ads in that space. And I think 
we'll get there over time and where the performance will, for Stories ads, will 
converge with what we've seen in feed, and I think that the opportunity will be 
bigger because there will be more in Stories than -- or more Stories overall than in 
feed. 
But I can't tell you just yet what that time frame is going to look like, but I think 
we're well positioned over the long term because we're leading in Stories in 
basically every country.
David Wehner: And Lloyd, on the margin question, as I mentioned, 2019 will be a big investment 
year. I would expect us to have the biggest change in our margin structure to 
happen in 2019 and for it to moderate from there. It's hard to be too prescriptive 
about 2020 and beyond, but I think the biggest change will be 2019.
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Brent Thill from Jefferies.
Brent Thill: Thanks.
Just on Europe, there's been a more pronounced deceleration. I'm just curious in 
terms of how you think about the stabilization there going forward in your model 
and maybe a little more color on the pricing?
David Wehner: Yes, hey, Brent, it's Dave.
I think -- I guess, if you're talking about DAU and MAU, the -- Europe is stable on 
that front in terms of Facebook overall. The accounting methodology change did 
affect how Europe sequential growth rate came in but really stable if you kind of 
take that aside. And we had some impact from GDPR over the last 2 quarters. I think 
from that perspective, it is broadly stable for Facebook there. 
19
European growth rate, I think, was healthy from a revenue point of view, so I think 
we're still seeing good growth in Europe on the revenue front. And a lot of the 
similar dynamics playing out in Europe as in the rest of the world where you see 
good impression growth opportunity, especially in areas like Instagram and Stories 
contributing to overall ability to drive revenue growth.
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Mark May from Citi.
Mark May: Thanks for taking my questions.
You seem confident that Stories will ultimately be a more effective canvas both for 
users and businesses and maybe even more so than the feed. And you also talked 
about the transitional challenges. What specifically are those challenges? And since 
Instagram is further along with Stories, are there any things you're seeing with 
Instagram Stories monetization that gives you kind of line of sight to reaching 
monetization parity not only at Instagram but also at core Facebook eventually?
And then maybe just a second one. In addition to Stories, Mark also discussed how 
private messaging is also a growth use case. In private messaging, the companies 
understandably still being cautious on the monetization side. Just curious if you 
could discuss how optimistic you are about building a meaningful business around 
private messaging?
Sheryl Sandberg: I can take those.
When you think about the transition or people using Feed versus Stories, there are a 
couple of things that are different. One is just the format. And again, we have a lot 
of experience with this. People had display ads or search ads before they really did 
Facebook ads if you look back a decade and teaching people, here's what a 
Facebook ad looks like was a new format -- people had to understand.
Then as we moved into more photos with Instagram, more videos, a video ad on 
Facebook or Instagram is a very different thing -- if they perform well, they need to 
be natively social -- than a video ad that runs on TV. 
Stories is a new format, right? It has multiple pictures, multiple screens, words and 
phrases intermixed in a different way. And so again, that's a new muscle for 
advertisers. I think we're getting people up the curve well this time. We've learned 
20
that we can't just rely on teaching our clients and teaching the ad agencies to do it --
but helping them do that. 
And so some of the tools we've rolled out that I talked about where we can take 
your Facebook pictures and your post and make it a story, that makes that process 
faster. 
I think when you think about the long-term monetization opportunities, it's really 
going to depend upon the time people spend. The amount of ads we would feel 
comfortable inserting into a consumer experience really depends upon how many 
different things you go through. If you spend more time in Stories, they'll need to be 
more engaging because there'll be fewer ads in there. 
Now, that may be possible because there's high, high, high, engagement in Stories, 
but we're going to have to see kind of the length and how quickly people scroll 
through them to see how many ad opportunities there are and to see how effective
those ad opportunities are. Our business depends upon kind of the amounts of ads 
we can show and the effectiveness of those ads, which drives up ROI and ultimately, 
the price. 
When you think about messaging, if we've already made the transition in a big way 
to Feed, if we are starting to see real success in Stories, messaging is in a much 
earlier stage. And what we're doing on Messenger and on WhatsApp are really 
making sure that businesses can connect with people and then in the early stages of 
testing messaging. We think paid messaging, as we've talked about, on WhatsApp is 
interesting because by virtue of paying, businesses are going to have to be careful 
about the content they send. You're not going to send a lot of things people don't 
want to see if you're paying for them. And so really focused on the consumer 
experience there and figuring out over time. 
The last thing I'll say is that I think these things are more connected than people 
realize in the sense that we're already seeing some nice traction with Click-toMessenger ads. One of the things advertisers are trying to do when they're in Feed 
and ultimately, when they're in Stories is drive to transactions and real engagement 
one-on-one with a consumer is often part of that. A click-to-Messenger ad takes 
advantage having both of those platforms so that businesses can deepen their 
relationship with the consumer. 
21
And I think those experiences and the interaction between them, we're in earlier 
days there, but I think we have a lot of opportunity to explore there.
David Wehner: And Mark, this is Dave, I just want to add and I think you asked about sort of line of 
sight on monetization parity on Stories versus Feed. It's obviously hard to say that 
because they're both dynamic, they're auctions, there's a lot going on. But I would 
say that at least in the near term, the impression growth opportunity is significant 
on Stories. 
Pricing will take time so as we bring more formats to Stories and bring more 
advertisers to Stories, we can build up that demand and balance that out with 
supply. But I think in terms of it converging on feed from -- in a pricing perspective, 
that's a journey that's going to take years, not quarters. It's going to take time.
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Anthony DiClemente from Evercore.
Anthony DiClemente: Thank you very much for taking my question.
Just one -- really one for Mark, which is I don't think anyone has asked much about 
the security investments that Facebook is making. And when we talk to investors, 
people are curious whether it's one-off or recurring. And so as you think about 2019 
-- the magnitude of the resources that the company plans to deploy to protect 
privacy, to protect security -- it sounds like you're in or will be in hopefully a better 
position to ward off bad actors than you were prior to the 2016 election. 
And -- but I just wonder, is it -- do you look at this as an endless arms race? Or is 
there some point in this investment where you might be able to get some better 
efficiencies on those investments also relative to others in the industry who are 
making investments that don't seem quite as sizable as Facebook's?
Thanks.
Mark Zuckerberg: Yes, this is a really important question.
I do think that we are up against sophisticated adversaries who will continue to 
evolve. There is a large element of this, which is an arms race. And when you're 
talking about security issues and some of the safety and content issues, these are 
22
not problems that we fix, right? They're problems that you manage over time and 
try to reduce and prevent issues from coming up. But it's not -- there's no silver 
bullet where you do the thing and then you're done. 
That said, I do think that we were quite behind where we needed to be a couple of 
years ago. We started a Roadmap, which we said was going to be about a 3-year 
Roadmap. I think that we have some confidence in that time frame, which takes us 
through the end of about 2019 to get our systems to the level that we generally 
think that they should be at.
Where we're building AI systems that can flag content that might be problematic to 
a much larger security and review team that can manage the larger volume of stuff 
that our tools are flagging to them. We're judging our success by -- go through all 
the categories of harmful content and behavior, whether it's terrorism or self-harm 
or hate speech or just any different kind of thing that you would be worried about --
we're judging our success by how proactive can we get, right? 
What percent of the stuff that we're taking down are we identifying before other 
people identify it for us? We've started issuing transparency reports so we can be 
held publicly accountable on this. 
What we see internally is that generally, every week and every quarter that goes by, 
we're getting better and better at this. But I anticipate that it will be about the end 
of next year when we feel like we're as dialed in as we would generally all like us to 
be. And even at that point, we're not going to be perfect because there's -- more 
than 2 billion people are communicating on the service. There are going to be things 
that our systems miss no matter how well tuned we are. But I think we're making 
progress. We've made a lot of progress on the last couple of years on content 
overall. 
Elections are a special case -- an extremely important special case -- of the content 
and safety issues and security issues that we face across all of the different types of 
content issues and people trying to spread hate or incite violence. We are making 
progress and I feel good about the progress that we're making. And I think we will 
continue investing more. But I do think that, to some degree, the last few years and 
next year are probably going to be the biggest growth in the investment in the 
security efforts that we'll see.
23
Operator: Your next question comes from the line of Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs.
Heather Bellini: Great. Thank you.
I just had 2 questions. And I guess, I just -- maybe you just touched on some of this, 
Mark. But the CapEx growth that you guys gave for next year, how far ahead should 
we think about you guys building out capacity? And can you help us think about the 
ongoing trend in particular in light of your comments that you just made about how 
you'll feel about being dialed in -- more dialed in at the end of 2019? But how do we 
think about kind of that continued growth in CapEx number? And is there anything 
there that's a one-time item? 
I guess, the other question would just be related to Stories, and I guess, I'm just 
wondering, I know it's early days in terms of advertisers putting ad units in there at 
this point. But given that you've got the technology to convert the creative and kind 
of help people with that process of how to do a good Stories ad, how effective do 
you think that's been in terms of helping to drive their adoption of this ad unit thus 
far?
David Wehner: Heather, I'll take the first question regarding CapEx.
Yes, we are investing ahead of user growth, given the long lead time in deploying 
data centers and network capacity. We are building some capacity ahead of our 
immediate need so that is playing into it. But we're also making investments to 
support the core growth of the business. There's a lot of compute that goes behind 
things like feed ranking and ads ranking. We think there's good ROI to putting more 
servers behind things like choosing the right ad for the right impression opportunity 
that we have. We are putting more compute behind that.
And then I'd also make the comment that a lot of our growth is coming from 
markets in Asia; the top growth countries were India, Indonesia and the Philippines. 
We're building capacity to serve that Asian peak and those users are at a lower 
ARPU so that impacts the overall capital intensity. We're continuing to invest and 
we're seeing increased CapEx in 2019, albeit at a much slower growth rate than we 
had in 2018.
Sheryl Sandberg: I'll talk about Stories and I'll share a fun and, I think, important example.
24
We know that when people are using more of the opportunities to reach 
consumers, their returns often go up. The fun example is the Furbo Dog Camera 
Company; they're a Taiwanese company. 
They built this camera where you can see, talk, and you can see and talk and toss 
dog treats to your dog when you're not at home. They ran a video ad campaign 
across Facebook and Instagram Stories, and they targeted people with dog-related 
interests and used Custom Audiences to exclude people who had already purchased 
their product. 
By running across Facebook Stories and Instagram Stories, they drove 20 percent 
more leads than their other digital campaigns. Anecdotally, with our early, early 
adopters, we can see that we believe the increased opportunities here really work 
and we have other examples like this.
In terms of how early it is for adoption, it's super early. We just rolled out the ability 
to do this in August and we have to drive awareness and drive people into trying it. 
And even when we make it super easy for people to get their ads into the right 
format, from the smallest mom-and-pop to the largest brands, people want to 
understand the creative of their ad and it needs to be a format they feel 
comfortable. As more people use Stories, we think they will increasingly feel 
comfortable in Stories, but we have a long road ahead of us -- even with tools that 
make it easy -- to drive awareness and adoption. 
We think once we do, the returns will be good.
Deborah Crawford: Operator, we are going to take one last question.
Operator: Your last question comes from the line of Ralph Schackart from William Blair.
Ralph Schackart: Good afternoon. 
Maybe switching gears to Feed. You talked about it being a major growth driver and 
a lot of opportunities for improvement. Can you maybe share some perspective on 
what those opportunities look like from both a user as well as an advertiser?
25
And then also maybe just kind of more longer term, how can Feed continue to be a 
strong growth driver?
Thanks.
Sheryl Sandberg: I can take that. 
When you think about feed, what people are doing is sharing; they're sharing in 
Instagram and Facebook. And that means there's, in many ways, almost limitless 
opportunity for consumers to do more.
I think we've made some strong changes on Facebook in terms of meaningful social 
interactions, and I think the history of our ability to develop and iterate on 
consumer products shows that we can help people as they evolve, share the things 
they want to share and have a very meaningful and important experience in Feed as 
they're sharing. 
Feed is fundamentally about information being pushed to a consumer and us 
helping figure out what is most interesting and most engaging, and I think in many 
ways, positive for people. And I think the product teams led by Mark have done a 
great job of that over time. And you're just seeing the continued investment there. 
Along with that goes the advertising opportunities as there are more Stories in Feed 
as more people are engaged in Facebook and increasingly in Instagram -- that gives 
us more opportunities just on the supply side of ads. 
On the demand side, all of the things we do to get more advertisers active in our 
system means we'll have more ads to choose from to make those ads more 
relevant, to measure the ROI of those ads so that people can then iterate and again 
make those more relevant. I think we've made real improvements there but I think 
there's a lot more we can do. 
And one of the ways I talk to people about it is just ask, what percentage of the ads 
you see in your feed are as good as the very best posts you see from friends? And I 
think most people will honestly say that certainly compared to a few years ago, 
those ads are much more relevant to them -- but not all of them.
26
And you can see in that example even in your own feed the opportunities we have 
to improve finding the right ad and giving it to the right person at the right time, 
which drives businesses all around the world and drives our business as well.
Deborah Crawford: Thank you for joining us today. We appreciate your time, and we look forward to 
speaking with you again.
Operator: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for joining 
us. You may now disconnect your lines.
END