Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
1
Second Quarter 2020 Prepared Remarks for PreRecorded Management Discussion
July 13, 2020
Company Participants
Ramon L. Laguarta, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Hugh F. Johnston, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
Ravi Pamnani, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
Please view these remarks in conjunction with our Q2 2020 earnings release, Q2 
2020 Form 10-Q and GAAP/non-GAAP reconciliations that can be found on our 
website at www.Pepsico.com under the Investors section, or via the following link:
https://investor.pepsico.com/investors/financial-information/quarterly-earnings/
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
2
Ravi Pamnani
Good morning everyone and welcome to this pre‐recorded 
management discussion of PepsiCo’s second quarter earnings 
results. My name is Ravi Pamnani and I am the Senior Vice 
President of Investor Relations at PepsiCo. Joining me today are 
PepsiCo’s Chairman and CEO Ramon Laguarta and PepsiCo’s Vice 
Chairman and CFO Hugh Johnston.
Before we begin, please take note of our cautionary statement. 
We will make forward‐looking statements on today’s call, 
including about our business plans and outlook and the potential 
impact of the COVID‐19 pandemic on our business. Forward‐
looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties 
and only reflect our view as of today, July 13th, and we are under 
no obligation to update. When discussing our results, we refer 
to non‐GAAP measures, which exclude certain items from 
reported results. 
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
3
Please refer to today’s earnings release and 10-Q, available on 
pepsico.com, for definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP 
measures and additional information regarding our results, 
including a discussion of factors that could cause actual results 
to materially differ from forward-looking statements.
As a reminder, our financial results in the United States and 
Canada, or North America, are reported on a 12‐week basis while 
substantially all of our international operations report on a 
monthly calendar basis for which the months of March, April and 
May are reflected in our results for the 12 weeks ended June 13, 
2020.
And now, it’s my pleasure to introduce our Chairman and CEO, 
Ramon Laguarta.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
4
Ramon Laguarta
Thank you, Ravi, and good morning everyone.
I’ll spend some time today discussing the current environment, 
our business performance and then provide thoughts on our 
expectations going forward given the unprecedented level of 
volatility that we currently face. I will then turn it over to Hugh 
for additional color on the financial details.
Our second quarter began during the early stages of the COVID19 pandemic for most of our markets. As we started the quarter, 
we set clear, simple priorities to manage the business 
successfully through the enormous challenges that were 
happening with the consumer, customer, economy and 
operating environment. These priorities included:
• Ensuring the protection and safety of all our associates, 
especially our critical frontline workers, by providing 
suitable personal protective equipment and sanitizers, 
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
5
conducting health screenings and implementing contact 
tracing and social distancing protocols;
• Providing the best service possible to our customers and
competing to win in the marketplace;
• Ensuring that we have adequate liquidity to run the 
business;
• Continuing to invest in capabilities that will drive our longterm success;
• Supporting the communities that we do business in and the 
people who live in them; and,
• Delivering strong financial results while executing against 
the above priorities.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
6
Based on this clarity of purpose, I’m pleased to report that our 
business performed relatively well through this unprecedented 
level of change.
Specifically:
• Our organic revenue increased 3.3 percent for the first half 
of this year, while second quarter organic revenue declined 
(0.3) percent.
• During the second quarter, our portfolio worked well as our 
global snacks business remained very resilient with 5
percent organic revenue growth, while global beverages 
declined (7) percent as increased take-home consumption 
was more than offset by a decline in the convenience and 
gas and away-from-home channels.
• Our core operating margin declined by approximately (200) 
basis points in the second quarter which included nearly 
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
7
$400 million of incremental COVID-19 related costs to keep 
our employees safe and ensure business continuity. 
Excluding these costs, our core operating margin would 
have increased in the quarter.
The months of March and April were particularly challenging as 
overall global economic growth was contracting and restrictions, 
closures and the resulting impact on consumer mobility had a 
significant effect on our performance. 
However, we saw an improvement in our business performance 
and channel dynamics in May and June as population mobility 
increased after many economies gradually began to reopen both 
in developed and developing markets.
 
***
Now, turning to our business review for the quarter, I will start
with North America. Our snacks and food businesses performed 
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
8
very well, while our beverage business was challenged but 
continued to improve its competitive positioning. 
Within snacks and food, we delivered strong organic revenue
growth across both Frito-Lay and Quaker, driven by strong 
category growth and market share gains. Consumer eating 
habits continued to evolve, with consumers spending more time 
at home, which benefits the at-home breakfast, snacking and 
dinner occasions. 
Organic revenue at Frito-Lay North America grew 6 percent and 
we gained market share in salty, savory and macro-snacks in the 
quarter. 
Frito’s net revenue growth was broad-based across all our major 
brands including double-digit growth in Tostitos, Fritos and 
Cheetos, high-single digit growth in Ruffles and mid-single digit 
growth in Doritos. Emerging brands such as Bare and Off The 
Eaten Path also delivered double-digit growth.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
9
Our larger pack sizes and multipacks performed very well as 
consumers’ desire for variety continued to grow. In addition, 
Frito’s performance in large-format channels was strong, which 
more than offset the declines in the convenience and gas and 
away from home channels. 
Frito’s core operating margin declined in the quarter due to
COVID-related costs, including frontline incentives and higher 
protective personal equipment and sanitation costs. Excluding 
these COVID-related costs, Frito’s core operating margin would 
have increased by 185 basis points.
At Quaker Foods, organic revenue increased 23 percent in the 
quarter with strong share performance across multiple 
categories and most brands posting net revenue growth despite 
supply constraints across a range of our products. 
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
10
Many categories within the Quaker business delivered doubledigit revenue growth driven by increased breakfast occasions, inhome dinners, and baking occasions. 
Quaker was also able to increase household penetration during 
the quarter and many of Quaker’s categories have grown even 
as economies reopened during the latter parts of the quarter
with consumers purchasing and incorporating these products 
into their repertoire of food consumption. 
We also have strong plans in place to retain incremental 
households with marketing and activation plans across the 
Quaker portfolio during the balance of this year, including the 
launch of Cheetos Mac ‘n Cheese this coming Fall.
From a profitability perspective, Quaker’s operating profit 
increased 55 percent in the quarter as strong operating leverage 
drove a six hundred basis point improvement in its operating 
margin.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
11
***
Now, I will turn to our North America Beverage business which
had a challenging quarter as we had expected. Organic revenue 
declined (7) percent due to declines in the convenience and gas 
and foodservice channels, which more than offset good growth 
in other channels such as grocery, mass and dollar stores. 
However, our revenue management initiatives enabled strong 
pricing gains across the business and within key categories such 
as carbonated soft drinks and sports drinks.
Both Pepsi Zero Sugar and Bubly continued to deliver strong 
double-digit net revenue growth, while our ready-to-drink 
coffee products delivered high-single digit net revenue growth in 
the quarter.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
12
In addition, we gained market share in ready-to-drink coffee, tea 
and enhanced waters during the quarter while our market share 
trends improved in carbonated soft drinks, sports drinks, and 
juices as the quarter progressed. 
Core operating profit declined due to higher COVID-19 related 
costs, including expenses for employee safety, sanitization and 
frontline incentives, lower volume and unfavorable channel mix 
dynamics. 
Before I conclude on beverages, I am also pleased to note that 
our transition and integration process with Rockstar and the 
distribution of Bang Energy is nearly complete. We have very 
strong growth and market share ambitions with respect to this 
highly profitable category and intend to use the depth and 
breadth of our portfolio and distribution capabilities to improve 
our execution and store presence.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
13
Our energy strategy will consist of three elements. Specifically:
• We will look to accelerate the performance of Rockstar, 
which has further room for growth;
• We will expand the distribution of Bang and improve 
execution in the marketplace; and
• We will unlock the potential for Mountain Dew to expand 
in the energy category. 
Now, as we look ahead for North America, we expect our overall 
business to perform well, assuming there is no large-scale
disruption in economic activity or population mobility as a result 
of the recent surge in COVID-19 infections in many markets. 
With this in mind, we expect our snacks and foods businesses to 
remain resilient, albeit with some moderation in growth, while 
our beverages business should deliver better performance 
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
14
during the second half of this year. 
From a channel perspective, we have seen an improvement in 
the performance of the convenience and gas channel since the 
latter part of the second quarter. Foodservice trends have also 
improved, but this channel continues to be in decline and will 
likely take a bit more time to recover. Most of our remaining 
traditional channels have continued to perform well while our 
ecommerce U.S. retail sales doubled in the quarter. 
***
Now, moving on to our international businesses, our second 
quarter results, which incorporated the months of March, April 
and May were significantly impacted by the timing of COVID-19 
restrictions and closures, which varied by country and by region.
As we saw in North America, our international snacks and foods 
businesses proved to be more resilient than beverages, with an 
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
15
increase in organic revenue of 2 percent in snacks, versus a 
decline of (5) percent in beverages.
Across our developed markets, organic revenue increased 18 
percent in Germany, 9 percent in Australia and 3 percent in the 
United Kingdom. And in developing and emerging markets, 
organic revenue increased 30 percent in China, 8 percent in 
South Africa, 7 percent in Brazil and 3 percent in Mexico.
Our SodaStream business also posted another quarter of strong 
double-digit net revenue growth as consumers are increasingly 
enjoying this environmentally friendly, at‐home platform.
With respect to our competitive position, we improved our yearto-date market share of snacks in Mexico, China, Brazil, UK, 
France and Spain, while we held or improved our market share 
of beverages in the United Kingdom, Germany, Poland, Mexico, 
Brazil and Thailand.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
16
Much like in North America, our international business trends
began to improve during the month of May as some businesses 
and economies reopened. In addition, our snacks business has 
remained very resilient.
However, we do expect an uneven recovery in international 
markets as a greater level of macroeconomic uncertainty will 
likely persist due to:
• Varying responses and measures by country to address 
pandemic-related impacts and population mobility;
• Greater volatility in travel and tourism trends; and,
• Greater differences in disposable income and affordability. 
These are two metrics we will be keeping a very close eye 
on as and when we consider surgical adjustments to offer 
great value in lower income markets. 
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
17
***
To summarize, we are pleased with our overall results in what 
was a very difficult environment. We remain committed to 
leveraging our strengths and principles - what we call The 
PepsiCo Way - to help guide our business leaders and associates 
in both good and difficult times. 
This includes reinforcing our culture in a manner that encourages
our associates to act like owners with integrity, and get things 
done quickly. We believe acting on these principles will enhance 
our standing with customers, with communities and employees.
We also continue to prioritize and invest behind our Faster, 
Stronger and Better framework which encompasses our brands, 
supply chain and go‐to‐market systems, manufacturing capacity, 
capabilities and culture, and our society by integrating purpose 
into everything we do.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
18
To continue our journey in becoming faster, and best position 
ourselves to navigate in the current environment, we have 
instituted an even greater focus on:
• Capturing more opportunities in the marketplace and 
improving value share;
• Rethinking what value and affordability means for our 
consumers and rapidly adjusting our offerings when 
necessary; 
• Simplifying our portfolio and commercial programs and 
making resource allocation adjustments to win with our 
customers and our consumers; and also, 
• Making calculated growth investments in priority markets 
that can enable us to emerge even stronger after the crisis.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
19
As it relates to becoming stronger, we are:
• Putting an even greater emphasis on our businesses to 
have a zero-based spending mindset in which we must 
earn our budgets. In doing so, we continually identified
savings and use them to fund new investments;
• Prioritizing critical initiatives that will transform the 
operating capabilities of the company for the future, such 
as accelerating the digital transformation of the company; 
and finally, 
• Re‐evaluating and stress testing other less critical 
investments, always seeking to optimize the investment 
portfolio for higher returns.
And then becoming better involves:
• Raising our ambitions to become Planet Positive;
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
20
• Continuing to integrate purpose into our business strategy 
and brands; and,
• Supporting and strengthening our local communities and 
promoting social justice - two topics that I will briefly 
expand on today.
With respect to our communities, we have announced more 
than $60 million in investments to help communities around the 
world stay healthy and safe during COVID-19, which includes
initiatives to help feed families and seniors, increase medical 
care and testing, expand access to government support, and 
provide technology for remote education and work. 
To promote social and economic progress, we have also 
announced a more than $400 million set of initiatives over five 
years to support Black communities and increase Black 
representation at all levels of PepsiCo and amongst our partners 
and our suppliers. We believe these initiatives comprise a 
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
21
holistic effort for PepsiCo to walk the talk of a leading 
corporation and help address the need for meaningful, longterm change in our society.
***
To conclude, we believe that PepsiCo is well‐positioned to adapt 
and succeed over the long‐term. We will continue to collaborate 
and leverage learnings across our entire organization to build on 
our strengths, many of which have been advantageous for us 
both pre- and post-pandemic, including:
• Large, well‐known brands that consumers love, and most 
importantly, that consumers trust;
• Strong positions in growing categories with expandable 
consumption traits;
• An agile supply chain with strong local sourcing networks;
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
22
• A flexible and advantaged direct store delivery go‐to‐
market system; and,
• A highly experienced set of global business leaders who 
have the empowerment, the knowledge and agility to 
make rapid, decentralized decisions to meet the needs of 
their local businesses.
Before I turn it over to Hugh, I want to again acknowledge the 
hard work of all our employees throughout this year. They have 
worked tirelessly to satisfy our customers and consumers and I 
am extremely proud of the dedication and efforts. With that, let 
me now turn it over to Hugh.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
23
Hugh Johnston
Thank you, Ramon. And good morning, everyone.
As Ramon mentioned earlier, our second quarter results were 
impacted by disruptions due to retail closures and other 
restrictions put in place as a result of COVID‐19.
In addition, our business experienced higher labor, personal 
protective equipment, logistics and service costs associated with 
COVID-19. These costs coupled with an adverse channel mix 
shift in key markets impacted our operating margin in the second 
quarter.
We expect some of these costs to persist and remain committed 
to making the necessary, long‐term investments to support our 
employees and customers, while also investing in capabilities 
that drive competitive advantages for our business.
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
24
To mitigate some of these challenges, we have accelerated our 
efforts to control what we can. This includes tightly managing 
our discretionary expenses, reducing non‐essential advertising 
and marketing spend to reflect the realities of the current 
environment and optimizing our pricing wherever possible. 
We have also reduced the complexity of our product offerings by 
prioritizing high‐velocity SKUs to maximize production capacity.
However, it remains difficult to predict exactly how consumer 
habits and macroeconomic conditions will evolve for the balance 
of this year. Based on what we can currently project for the full‐
year 2020, we continue to expect:
• Our annual core effective tax rate to be approximately 21 
percent;
• Total cash returns to shareholders of approximately $7.5 
billion, comprised of dividends of $5.5 billion and share 
repurchases of $2 billion; and
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
25
• We now expect foreign exchange translation to negatively 
impact our reported revenue and core EPS by (3) 
percentage points based on current market consensus 
rates;
Our expected cash returns reflect a 7 percent increase in the 
annualized dividend per share that began in June. This 
represented the Company’s 48th consecutive annual dividend 
per share increase.
With respect to our liquidity and balance sheet, we believe that 
we have ample flexibility to meet the investment needs of our 
business and return cash to shareholders. 
Now, as we look ahead to our third quarter:
• We expect our organic revenue to increase within a lowsingle digit range, which incorporates the geographic 
perspectives and channel dynamics that Ramon 
Prepared Q2 2020 Earnings Remarks 7/13/20
26
referenced earlier;
• We expect our core operating margin to contract, albeit at 
a less severe rate than what we experienced during the 
second quarter, as greater costs associated with keeping 
our employees safe persist; and,
• We expect foreign exchange translation headwinds to 
negatively impact our net revenue and core earnings per 
share performance by (3) percentage points.
***
With that, we conclude our prepared remarks for today. We 
thank you for your time and the confidence you’ve placed in us 
with your investment. I invite you to listen to our live question 
and answer webcast, which will begin today at 8:15 a.m. Eastern 
Time and will be available at pepsico.com. Thank you.