Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
1
Third Quarter 2020 Prepared Remarks for 
Pre-Recorded Management Discussion
October 1, 2020
Company Participants
Ramon L. Laguarta, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Hugh F. Johnston, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
Ravi Pamnani, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations
Please view these remarks in conjunction with our Q3 2020 earnings release, Q3 
2020 Form 10-Q and GAAP/non-GAAP reconciliations that can be found on our 
website at www.pepsico.com under the Investors section, or via the following link:
https://investor.pepsico.com/investors/financial-information/quarterly-earnings/
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
2
Ravi Pamnani
Good morning everyone and welcome to this pre-recorded 
management discussion of PepsiCo’s third quarter earnings 
results. My name is Ravi Pamnani, and I am the Senior Vice 
President of Investor Relations at PepsiCo. Joining me today are 
PepsiCo’s Chairman and CEO Ramon Laguarta and PepsiCo’s Vice 
Chairman and CFO Hugh Johnston.
Before we begin, please take note of our cautionary statement. 
We will make forward-looking statements on today’s call, 
including about our business plans and 2020 guidance and the 
potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. 
Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and 
uncertainties and only reflect our view as of today, October 1st, 
and we are under no obligation to update. When discussing our 
results, we refer to non-GAAP measures, which exclude certain 
items from reported results. 
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
3
Please refer to today’s earnings release and 10-Q, available on 
pepsico.com, for definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP 
measures and additional information regarding our results, 
including a discussion of factors that could cause actual results 
to materially differ from forward-looking statements.
As a reminder, our financial results in the United States and 
Canada, or North America, are reported on a 12-week basis while 
substantially all of our international operations report on a 
monthly calendar basis for which the months of June, July and 
August are reflected in our results for the 12 weeks ended 
September 5, 2020.
And now, it’s my pleasure to introduce our Chairman and CEO, 
Ramon Laguarta.
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
4
Ramon Laguarta
Thank you, Ravi, and good morning everyone.
My agenda today will include a detailed discussion of our 
business performance and a reiteration of the guiding principles 
and priorities on becoming a Faster, Stronger and Better
company. I will then turn it over to Hugh for additional 
perspectives on our financial results and 2020 outlook. 
But before I start the business review, I would like to note that I 
am very pleased with how our people and business have
performed in what continues to be a complex and volatile 
environment. 
As this environment continues to evolve, we remain very
focused on controlling what we can with an unwavering 
commitment to:
• Keeping our employees safe;
• Servicing our customers to the very best of our ability; and,
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
5
• Supporting our communities in both good and difficult 
times.
The dedication and resilience of our employees have been 
nothing short of exemplary during these times and I want to 
thank them for everything they do.
***
Now, with respect to our business performance, our organic 
revenue growth accelerated in the third quarter. Our global 
snacks and food business remained resilient, while our global 
beverage business returned to growth. 
Specifically:
• Our Q3 organic revenue growth accelerated to 4.2 percent, 
with both our North America and International businesses
delivering mid-single digit growth;
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
6
• Our global snacks and food business delivered 6 percent 
organic revenue growth, while our global beverage 
business delivered 3 percent organic revenue growth. The 
global beverage business meaningfully improved versus the 
previous quarter with especially encouraging results in our 
PepsiCo Beverages North America division;
• Core constant currency operating profit increased 5 percent 
and reflected an increase in our advertising and marketing 
spend; and,
• Core constant currency EPS increased 9 percent.
***
Now, starting with North America snacks and food, both FritoLay and Quaker Foods continued to deliver robust growth as athome consumption trends have remained strong despite the
measured reopening of economies and activities in certain areas
since May.
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
7
Frito-Lay sustained its strength with 6 percent organic revenue 
growth and gained market share in the macro-snack category in 
the quarter. 
These results were powered by strong net revenue growth 
across each of our billion-dollar brands including double-digit 
growth for Tostitos, high-single digit growth for Cheetos, and 
mid-single digit growth for Doritos and Ruffles.
We also saw continued strength in the e-commerce and large 
format channels, while trends in the convenience and gas 
channel meaningfully improved versus the previous quarter. 
And finally, Frito’s core constant currency operating profit 
increased 4 percent in the quarter which included a strong 
double-digit increase in advertising and marketing spend and 
additional COVID-19 related costs.
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
8
Quaker Foods delivered 6 percent organic revenue growth along 
with an improvement in household penetration rates in the 
quarter. 
Quaker’s revenue growth was in-line with what we had expected 
and consistent with where the business was trending after 
economies in certain areas began to reopen during the second 
quarter.
Quaker’s third quarter performance included strong double-digit 
net revenue growth in lite snacks and side dishes such as pasta 
and macaroni and cheese. Pancake mixes and syrup sales 
increased at a high-single digit rate, while both hot and ready-toeat cereal also delivered good growth.
Quaker’s strong net revenue growth and cost management
initiatives resulted in a 170-basis point increase in core operating 
margin and 14 percent increase in core constant currency 
operating profit.
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
9
***
Now, I will turn to our North America beverages business, where 
we delivered a strong improvement in results with 3 percent 
organic revenue growth and 12 percent core constant currency 
operating profit growth.
Many of our large brands performed well with double-digit net 
revenue growth for bubly, Lipton and Starbucks, high-single digit 
growth for Gatorade, mid-single digit growth for Mountain Dew 
and Tropicana, and low-single digit growth for Pepsi.
Innovation has continued to play an important role in the 
portfolio. For example, Gatorade Zero, bubly and Mountain Dew 
Zero Sugar, in aggregate, have delivered more than $1 billion in 
retail sales on a year-to-date basis. We also continue to invest 
in our successful Pepsi Zero Sugar product, which has grown its 
retail sales by more than 30 percent year-to-date.
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
10
From a channel performance perspective, both the large format 
and convenience and gas channels delivered strong growth, 
while the decline in the foodservice channel moderated. 
Our market share trend within the liquid refreshment beverage
category improved versus the previous quarter and we gained 
market share in the coffee, tea and juice categories. We also 
executed well on our net revenue management initiatives in 
larger categories such as carbonated soft drinks and sports 
drinks.
In addition, our expanded presence in the energy category 
contributed to our reported net revenue growth and reported 
operating profit in the quarter. We are very excited about our 
expanded presence in this highly profitable category with our 
recent acquisition of Rockstar and distribution agreement with 
Bang. 
Our focus will remain on improving the performance and 
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
11
marketplace execution of these terrific brands while also 
effectively competing in the category with existing brands such 
as Mountain Dew.
Overall, I am very pleased with PBNA’s performance during the 
third quarter and am encouraged by our North America energy 
integration process as it nears its completion. 
Moving forward, I remain optimistic about the long-term 
potential of the North America beverage business and believe 
we have the right plans and portfolio in place to deliver
sustainable growth and margin expansion over time.
***
In summary, our North America businesses performed well in 
the quarter and we expect our snacks and foods businesses to 
remain resilient while our beverages business should sustain its 
momentum for the balance of this year. 
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
12
***
Now, I will turn to our international businesses, which improved 
meaningfully versus the previous quarter and delivered 4 
percent organic revenue growth in the third quarter. 
Our international snacks business remained very resilient and 
delivered 5 percent organic revenue growth, while our 
international beverage organic revenue increased nearly 2 
percent as pandemic related closures and restrictions eased to a 
certain extent in some markets. 
Within our international markets, developed market organic 
revenue growth increased 8 percent and outpaced developing 
and emerging markets which increased 2 percent. 
Some notable highlights include double-digit organic revenue 
growth in France, Australia, and Brazil, high-single digit growth 
in India and mid-single digit growth in the U.K., China and Russia. 
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
13
We gained savory share in many of our key snack markets, 
including Mexico, Brazil, China and Russia and for beverages, we 
gained share in the U.K., Russia, Turkey, France, Germany and 
Thailand.
And finally, we again delivered strong double-digit net revenue
growth in our SodaStream business, as consumers continue to 
adopt this environmentally friendly, convenient, at-home 
beverage system.
Now, to touch on the outlook for our international businesses, 
we expect our snacks business to remain resilient while the 
recovery for our beverage business may take more time due to 
ongoing and reinstated pandemic related restrictions and 
closures as it relates to certain channels. 
And from a geographical perspective, we continue to expect our 
performance to vary between developed and developing and 
emerging markets due to differences in:
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
14
• Pandemic related impacts and responses;
• Disposable income and affordability metrics;
• Foreign exchange dynamics; and,
• Fiscal and monetary policy support.
***
To conclude, I believe our overall business is performing well and 
is benefiting from the diversity and breadth of our portfolio and 
strategic actions we have taken to complement our growth 
agenda. 
We are content with the composition of our portfolio and are 
more focused now on maximizing the full potential of our
existing and recently acquired assets to drive improved growth 
and returns over time as we aim to become an even Faster, 
Stronger and Better organization.
And I’d like to spend a few minutes on reinforcing this strategic 
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
15
framework that prioritizes our actions and behaviors within the 
company.
***
When we say Faster, we mean that we must win in the 
marketplace and improve market share by being more 
consumer-centric and investing in both large, established brands 
and smaller, emerging brands to accelerate our growth.
Our key priorities to become Faster include:
• Sustaining or improving growth and market share in our 
high return snacks and food businesses in North America;
• Improving the profitability of our North America beverage 
business and capturing our fair share of category growth;
• Accelerating our growth and presence in international
snacks and food while investing wisely in beverages to 
balance between growth and returns; and,
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
16
• Making the necessary investments in our manufacturing 
capacity, go-to-market systems and digital initiatives such 
as improving our presence and scale in our e-commerce
business, which nearly doubled during the third quarter.
When we say Stronger, we mean that we must continue to 
transform our cost structure, capabilities, and culture. 
Our priorities here include a renewed focus on driving holistic 
cost management throughout our organization to support our 
investments in advantaged capabilities such as:
• A highly agile and flexible end-to-end value chain;
• More precision around revenue management;
• Investing in data analytics that can provide more granularity 
around consumer insights; and,
• We continue to invest to further expand global business 
services into new capabilities, which will enable better 
insight and support for our businesses at a much lower cost.
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
17
With respect to transforming our culture, we are committed to
diversifying our workforce, balancing internal views with more 
outside-in thinking, and reinforcing The PepsiCo Way, where we 
emphasize that employees act like owners to get things done 
quickly.
And when we say Better, we’re focused on further integrating 
purpose into our business strategy and brands by becoming 
planet positive, strengthening our roots in our communities, and 
advancing social justice.
For example, we are committed to becoming planet positive by 
supporting practices and technologies that improve farmer 
livelihoods and agricultural resiliency. 
We are also focused on using precious resources such as water 
more efficiently, accelerating our efforts to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions throughout our value chain and driving progress 
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
18
toward a world where plastics need never become waste by 
focusing on reducing, recycling, and reinventing packaging.
And when it comes to our people across the value chain, PepsiCo 
remains committed to advancing respect for human rights, 
building diverse and inclusive workplaces, and investing to 
promote shared prosperity in local communities where we live 
and work.
In summary, I believe we are executing well against our strategic 
framework and remain well-positioned for future success with 
our:
• Portfolio of large, trusted brands that participate in 
attractive and growing categories;
• A team of trusted and highly seasoned business leaders;
• A very powerful go-to-market distribution system; and, 
• An agile, end-to-end supply chain network.
Before I conclude my portion of this discussion today and turn it 
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
19
over to Hugh, I want to reiterate that I am incredibly proud of 
the way our organization has executed and performed in what 
has been an incredibly complex and dynamic environment. And 
I want to thank everyone again for their dedication and efforts. 
With that, I’ll turn it over to Hugh.
***
Hugh Johnston
Thank you, Ramon. And good morning, everyone.
As Ramon covered in detail, our business performance improved 
in the third quarter and we delivered 4.2 percent organic 
revenue growth. I’ll focus my commentary on our profit 
performance and financial outlook for 2020.
From a margin perspective, our core gross margin declined (60) 
basis points in the quarter. The year-over-year decline is driven 
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
20
by our recently completed acquisitions of Pioneer Foods and Be 
& Cheery and certain COVID-19 related costs included in our cost 
of goods sold. 
Our core operating margin decline moderated and was down 
(40) basis points in the quarter as we increased our advertising 
and marketing spend and experienced $147 million of higher 
labor, personal protective equipment, and logistics and service 
costs associated with COVID-19. 
When excluding the incremental COVID-19 related costs, our 
core operating margin increased 40 basis points.
We expect some of the COVID-19 related costs to persist and 
remain committed to making the necessary long-term 
investments to support our employees and customers, while 
also investing in capabilities that drive competitive advantages 
for our business.
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
21
To mitigate some of these challenges, we have continued our 
efforts to control what we can. This includes tightly managing 
our discretionary expenses, reducing non-essential advertising 
and marketing spend to reflect the realities of the current 
environment and sharpening our revenue management 
capabilities across brands and packages. 
Now as we look forward, and consistent with Ramon’s earlier 
comments, we do expect our North America businesses to 
remain resilient for the balance of this year, while the recoveries 
across international markets will likely remain uneven across 
both developed and developing and emerging markets. 
So, based on what we can reasonably predict for the balance of 
this year, we are updating our full year guidance and now expect:
• Organic revenue growth of approximately 4 percent; and,
• Core earnings per share of approximately $5.50.
• And we continue to expect a core annual effective tax rate 
of approximately 21 percent.
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
22
Based on current market consensus rates, we now expect 
foreign exchange translation headwinds to negatively impact our 
net revenue and core earnings per share performance by 
negative (2) percentage points and this expectation is reflected 
in our core EPS guidance.
With respect to cash flow, we now expect full year free cash flow 
of approximately $6 billion, which reflects net capital spending 
of approximately $4 billion and continue to expect total cash 
returns to shareholders of approximately $7.5 billion, comprised
of dividends of $5.5 billion and share repurchases of $2 billion. 
Our expected cash returns reflect a 7 percent increase in the 
annualized dividend per share that began in June. This 
represented the Company’s 48th consecutive annual dividend 
per share increase.
With respect to our liquidity and balance sheet, we continue to 
believe that we have ample flexibility to meet the reinvestment 
Prepared Q3 2020 Earnings Remarks 10/01/20
23
needs of the business and return cash to shareholders. 
***
With that, we conclude our prepared remarks for today. We 
thank you for your time and the confidence you’ve placed in us 
with your investment. We invite you to listen to our live 
question and answer webcast, which will begin today at 8:15 
a.m. Eastern Time and will be available on pepsico.com. 