Client Id: 77
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS
EDITED TRANSCRIPT
PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
EVENT DATE/TIME: JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM GMT
OVERVIEW:
Co. reported 2Q19 organic revenue growth of 4.5%. Expects 2019 organic revenue
to grow 4%.
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
Client Id: 77
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Hugh F. Johnston PepsiCo, Inc. - Vice Chairman, Executive VP & CFO
Jamie Caulfield PepsiCo, Inc. - SVP of IR
Ramon Luis Laguarta PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
Ali Dibadj Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division - SVP and Senior Analyst
Amit Sharma BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst
Andrea Faria Teixeira JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD
Bonnie Lee Herzog Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Beverage & Tobacco Analyst
Bryan Douglass Spillane BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - MD of Equity Research
Caroline Shan Levy Macquarie Research - Senior Analyst
Dara Warren Mohsenian Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD
Judy Eunjoo Hong Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Research Division - MD, Senior Analyst & Co-Head of the GIR Asian Professionals Network
Kaumil S. Gajrawala Crédit Suisse AG, Research Division - MD & Research Analyst
Kevin Michael Grundy Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Senior VP & Equity Analyst
Lauren Rae Lieberman Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst
Laurent Daniel Grandet Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst and MD of the Consumer & Retail Team
Robert Edward Ottenstein Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division - Senior MD, Head of Global Beverages Research & Fundamental Research Analyst
Sean Roberts King UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Equity Research Analyst of Beverages
Stephen Robert R. Powers Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division - Research Analyst
Sunil Harshad Modi RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division - MD of Tobacco, Household Products and Beverages
William Bates Chappell SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., Research Division - MD
PRESENTATION
Operator
Good morning and welcome to PepsiCo's Second Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. (Operator Instructions) Today's call is being recorded
and will be archived at www.pepsico.com. It is now my pleasure to introduce Mr. Jamie Caulfield, Senior Vice President of Investor Relations. Mr.
Caulfield, you may begin.
Jamie Caulfield - PepsiCo, Inc. - SVP of IR
Thank you, operator, and good morning, everyone. I'm joined this morning by PepsiCo's Chairman and CEO, Ramon Laguarta; and PepsiCo's Vice
Chairman and CFO, Hugh Johnston. We'll begin today's call with some brief prepared comments from Ramon and Hugh and then I'll open the call
up to your questions.
Before we begin, please take note of our cautionary statement. We will make forward-looking statements on today's call, including about our plans
and 2019 guidance. Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties and reflect our view as of today, and we are under no
2
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
obligation to update. When discussing our results, we refer to non-GAAP measures, which exclude certain items from reported results. Please refer
to today's earnings release and 10-Q available on pepsico.com for definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures and additional information
regarding our results and for a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements.
And now it's my pleasure to introduce Ramon Laguarta.
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Thank you, Jamie. Good morning, everyone. With just 4 things I would like to highlight before I move on to a brief recap of the operating sector's
results.
First, we're very pleased with our results for the second quarter. Organic revenue grew 4.5%, overall, with each of our 6 operating sectors contributing
to the growth. I believe the solid growth we had in the second quarter is a good indication of the strength of both our product and geographic
portfolios. And it also gives us the confidence that the plans we shared with you at the beginning of the year are being very well executed.
Second, we continue to make progress on our productivity agenda and remain on track to achieve our full year productivity target savings.
Third, we're on track with our investment priorities, amongst which we've stepped up our brand investments, which is evident in the increase in
A&M in the first half of 56 basis points as a percent of net revenue. We've invested in advance data and analytics to enhance our consumer and
shopper insights and sharpen the precision of our execution.
We invested in increased go-to-market capacity and capability, including routes, other frontline selling resources and e-commerce. We invested
in increased manufacturing capacity with additional lines and plans to support our fastest-growing brands. We invested to drive greater global
systems harmonization and standardization. And we took steps to transform our culture to become more effective by being more consumer-centric,
nimble and collaborative. And fourth, we're reaffirming our full year guidance.
So let me move on to the sector's results, starting with Frito-Lay North America. FLNA continue to post strong growth in the second quarter with
organic revenue up 5% and solid market performance. We delivered good net revenue growth in our key trademarks, including Lay's, Doritos,
Cheetos and RUFFLES. In addition, we posted good growth across all channels in the U.S., led by high single-digit growth in convenience and dollar
stores.
We continue to invest across the business with the aim to drive sustainable better-than-industry growth, and this includes investing in plant and
warehouse capacity, routes, sales technology, enhanced consumer and shopper data and insights and brand media. To this point, in the second
quarter, FLNA's A&M was up high single digits with investments across our portfolio of brands. And we're pleased to note that FLNA was once
again the largest contributor to double food and beverage U.S. retail sales growth in the quarter.
PepsiCo Beverages North America delivered 2% organic net revenue growth with solid benefit from net price realization. trademark Pepsi and
trademark Mountain Dew showed sequential volume improvement. And our ready-to-drink coffee and water volumes grew in the high and
mid-single digits, respectively. A&M spending was up strong double digits for the quarter.
Beyond brand investment we also directed investment on innovation to address new category entrants and to drive success in higher-growth
category segments. And this is evident with innovations like Mountain Dew Game Fuel, Gatorade Zero and Gatorade Bolt24, LIFEWTR, bubly, new
variants of Propel, and extensions within our successful Starbucks and Pure Leaf tea liners.
We're encouraged by the steady improvement we've seen in the business and we believe that, as we execute our planned investment agenda,
we'll see a return to sustained competitive performance.
Rounding out North America, the second quarter was Quaker's strongest quarter of organic revenue growth in 3 years with organic revenue up
3% driven by net price realization and modest volume gains.
3
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
We've restored brand support across the Quaker portfolio and we've returned to volume growth in (inaudible) and ready-to-eat cereals, each of
which delivered mid-single-digit volume growth.
Now moving on to international, despite ongoing macroeconomic volatility in a number of key markets and poor weather in parts of Western
Europe, each of our international divisions delivered solid organic revenue growth in the second quarter. Notably, developing and emerging market
organic revenue increased 8% driven by particularly good growth in a number of our key markets.
Mexico and Russia were up high single digits. Brazil was up more than 20% in part reflecting the benefit of lapping last year's transport strike. China
grew strong double digits. And India increased mid-single digits. These results are reflection of the benefits of the increased investments we're
making in the business and reinvigorated emphasis on marketplace execution driving local relevance and local affordability, expanding our global
brand portfolio and leveraging our global capabilities to drive higher per-capita consumption and market share gains.
And with this, let me hand it off to Hugh.
Hugh F. Johnston - PepsiCo, Inc. - Vice Chairman, Executive VP & CFO
Thank you, Ramon, and good morning, everyone. I have just a few comments on the balance-of-the-year outlook. As Ramon just mentioned we're
reiterating each of the components of our 2019 guidance, namely we continue to expect organic revenue growth of 4%; a core effective tax rate
of approximately 21%; core constant currency EPS to decline approximately 1%; free cash flow of approximately $5 billion; and total cash returns
to shareholders of approximately $8 billion, comprised of dividends of approximately $5 billion and share repurchases of approximately $3 billion.
As you model out the balance of the year, I call your attention to the fact that the organic revenue growth comparisons get meaningfully more
challenging in the second half. And from an EPS perspective you should consider the following: first, over the balance of the year, we will be lapping
gains from various strategic asset sales and re-franchising gains and insurance recoveries; and second, our pace of planned reinvestments in the
business will accelerate over the balance of the year, and you will see this reflected both in core EPS as well as in our operating margin performance.
Now we'll open it up for your questions. Operator, we'll take the first question.
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Operator
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Bryan Spillane of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Bryan Douglass Spillane - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - MD of Equity Research
Ramon, I guess, kind of stepping back, you've had now have half a year of this stepped up investment. And I think if we look at the organic sales,
the composition of organic sales particularly North America, it's a little bit more price-heavy and less volumes. So, I guess, 2 questions around that.
One, do you think that the -- is the investment allowing for maybe more pricing and mix than maybe what existed previously? And second, would
you expect that we'd start to see maybe more of a pickup in volume or demand as more of these marketing initiatives get into the market for the
balance of the year?
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes. Yes, listen, we're seeing balanced growth in the U.S. and very rational pricing in our categories, both in snacks and beverages. Last year,
remember, we had higher commodity inflation, so I think that's being reflected a little bit in the pricing this year. But, nevertheless, what we're
trying to do is trying to understand much better a consumer -- trying to understand the different occasions the consumer is going into our categories
4
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
and maximize, obviously, the opportunities for revenue in each one of those occasions. We're investing a lot in net revenue management across
the company. And that's translating into, I would say, a better mix management, channel management, transaction per unit management. And
that's what you should be seeing in the future as well.
The most important thing from the investor point of view is we're seeing very rational pricing across the industry. And everybody is trying to
generate value by investing in brands, improving distribution, connecting better with consumers versus just using price as the only lever of attracting
consumers to your brands. So I think it's pretty, pretty powerful good situation for our categories, I would say.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Dara Mohsenian of Morgan Stanley.
Dara Warren Mohsenian - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - MD
So just to get a bit more granularity on the pricing, we've obviously seen Frito-Lay North America, the balance is tilted much more towards pricing
recently with the strong organic sales growth over the last few quarters. So can you give us a little more granularity on what specifically has been
driving that? And should we expect more of a balance going forward between pricing and volume? And then also on the beverage side, obviously
very strong pricing the last few quarters post the fall increase. You just commented that the competitive environment is pretty rational. But just
any thoughts on pricing potential in NAB when you cycle those increases in the fall would be helpful.
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Sure. I would say, and Hugh will add to my comments, but what we've seen in the industry is a trend towards smaller packs. So consumers are
somehow either size of the household or in particular occasions where they're consuming our products, consumers are moving to smaller packs.
And if you recall, when we talk about our -- some of our investments in the past, in the past call, we said we were going to put additional capacity
because we're seeing that the consumers move into smaller packs and some of our capacities under -- there are some bottlenecks in our capacity
because of that, right?
So as we move in -- as the consumer moves into smaller packs, you realize more pricing. Price per kilo is better, price per liter is better.
The second trend is consumers are looking for higher-value products. So more functional, more -- they're looking for more benefits in the consumption
of our categories, be it snacks or beverages. And that is also -- tends to be also higher price per liter, price per kilo. So I think you will continue to
see those trends going forward in our categories, especially in more developed markets. Developing markets is a bit of a different game where you
have to be very mindful of the price points and the affordability lenses. So if you cross certain price points, clearly, your products become out of
reach for a lot of consumers. Where, in developed markets, we see smaller packs and more functional benefits driving what I would say positive
pricing environment. Then, also, we see more consumption in convenience channels, channels where consumers are willing to be a bit less price
sensitive and pay more for our -- for every transaction. So those are trends that you could see as positive trends for the category. I don't know about
you, Hugh.
Hugh F. Johnston - PepsiCo, Inc. - Vice Chairman, Executive VP & CFO
Yes, I totally agree. I was going to say a lot of the same things. The only small pieces I would add to it, number one, Dara, in particular with Frito-Lay
Sabra, where we recorded the volume, but we don't capture the revenue, we only pick it up in equity income. That was about a 1-point drag on
Frito-Lay's volume. So if you take that out, then Frito-Lay's volume to revenue looks a little bit closer, obviously. And then number two, as Ramon
said, I think in developed markets, we probably can expect a couple of points visual and then a couple points of consumer-driven mix that will
enable us to get pricing in the future. So that I think is a reasonable expectation going forward.
5
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Ali Dibadj of Bernstein.
Ali Dibadj - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., LLC., Research Division - SVP and Senior Analyst
So I just want to go back to the investments that you've been making now over the past 6 months and where you expect that to appear in the top
line. Is it rate? Is it mix? Is it volume? Ramon, I appreciate your commentary in the first question about price rationality in the marketplace, certainly.
But the incrementality of the investments I would have imagined would like to show up in one of the top line drivers, and we're not quite seeing
it yet. So I'm just trying to understand how you think about investment and where it's supposed to appear, the ROI of that and whether you're
adjusting anything because it doesn't look like it's actually showing up in your particular result in terms of incremental investment. And in particular,
I'm talking about PBNA.
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Okay, Ali. Listen, I won't go into very specifics for each one of the business. What I'll tell you is the philosophy behind these investments, we're
trying to have a very high-growth -- sustained high-growth company going forward. I think we are -- we have accelerated clearly from the 2%, 3%
sustained 4% to 5% growth. Our ambition is to stay within those parameters we set in the 4% to 6% top line growth. And that would require multiple
layers of investment across multiple parts of the business right?
So if you think what we've been doing, we've been investing in what you could call more short-term levers of acceleration, whether there would
be new routes in the markets or more selling capacity or improving some of our warehousing bottlenecks that we had in some of our businesses
because of high growth or some of the investments we're putting now in capacity because, really, the demand is quite, quite high for some of our
technologies.
So that you will see reflected -- it is being reflected. I mean if you see Frito-Lay 4.5% growth or acceleration in a lot of the water brands, in PBNA,
or some of the coffees, or whatever. I mean, it is being reflected. But the big idea, I think, for us and the philosophy of our investing and we're trying
to run the company is how do we keep investing capabilities that will give us that 4.5% or 5% or 4%. Like between the 4% and 6% going forward
on a sustained basis. And not only the U.S. but really across the company. And those have to do with new capabilities in insights and how do we
digitalize the company and how do we what we call precision at scale, so how do we execute our portfolios in every store with the right level of
insights and precision. And we have closed loops on execution so that our people can execute consistently at those high levels. How do we continue
to innovate in new platforms and have the right amount of resources to invest in new platforms versus taking money from the core and giving to
those new platforms.
So that is the philosophy, and that's what we're doing. And to tell you the truth, we're pretty happy with the way the business is responding, the
way we're seeing our market share evolving in our key markets and our markets-to-be in the future. So I think we feel pretty good. And the investment
will come in all the different areas that I told you. And with this idea of sustained -- very sustained high performance top line, that will be the big
driver of value for you guys as shareholders of the company.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Judy Hong of Goldman Sachs.
Judy Eunjoo Hong - Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Research Division - MD, Senior Analyst & Co-Head of the GIR Asian Professionals Network
So, Ramon, I think you cited improvement in NAB, particularly around the Pepsi trademark and Mountain Dew. But, I guess, one area that's still
somewhat soft is Gatorade. So maybe from your perspective, if you can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing from a Gatorade standpoint.
6
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
Obviously, you have innovation around the trademark with the Bolt24. So how does that kind of fit into the strategy and when you think that we
should see some more tangible improvement on that brand?
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes. Listen, Gatorade is clearly a big brand for us and one that is very solid with the consumer. All the metrics on the brand are fantastic in terms
of consumer engagement and consumer brand equity in all dimensions is very strong. Now what we're doing is innovate against that umbrella.
The big innovation we -- I mean you've mentioned Bolt, but the big innovation is being Gatorade Zero, right? So with Gatorade Zero, we've been
able to expand the consumer base of the brand to some consumers that actually were athletes but they put a lot of, I guess, emphasis on sugar,
and therefore, the less of the occasions that they were consuming the brand to move into other opportunities. So now, with Gatorade Zero, we've
seen that we're expanding again the consumer base of the brand. And that's going to be very, very incremental for us going forward.
We're seeing the incrementality for the category, we're seeing the incrementality for the brand. Gatorade Zero is already the #1 Zero sports drink
in the country by quite a distance, I would say, and we'd see every week the velocity of the brand improving. So I think that this is a brand that will
be very big for us.
Now Propel is another big opportunity for us in sports drink and sports hydration, and we see Propel growing also double-digit consistently for
the last few years. It's a brand intended for what we call more casual exercisers, and we're trying to give them a good combination of hydration
with lower calories. That's working very well. Now we're adding vitamins and some other positive functionality.
And then we have Bolt. Bolt24 is a new platform for us. It's going to be a functional platform trying to -- it's catering to the athlete off the field. I
think the consumption would be off the field. We're trying to give hydration to the athlete during the day with functional benefits that are all-natural.
I mean now Bolt24 is watermelon, water plus sea salt. That's how the consumer will get its electrolytes. And then we're adding some vitamins or
antioxidants and whatever. So -- and you will see more innovation coming under that platform. That will be off-the-field functionality for the core
athlete.
We're very positive about the image, the functionality, the brand that we can create about -- around Bolt. That is going to be one more example
of how Gatorade understands consumers and continues to innovate against all the needs of consumers in the sports arena.
So we're very positive about the continued share of market development that we have in this segment and how we'll be able to grow the category,
which is at the end our biggest responsibility as the leader of the category.
Operator
Your next question comes from Lauren Lieberman of Barclays.
Lauren Rae Lieberman - Barclays Bank PLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst
Great. I was hoping we could talk a little bit about the international strategy. So, Ramon, you talked about sort of this, like, challenger stronghold
battleground framework for thinking about market, I was just hoping you could maybe shed a little bit more light on kind of the investment
priorities, whether you want to talk about it by geography, by category. And do you think kind of the game changer for you at accelerating
performance or market share performance is about -- is it more about innovation or is it more about capabilities and execution?
7
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Okay. Listen, we are -- we see international as a huge growth opportunity for this company long term. And I think we've been growing international
2 to 3x the U.S. growth for the last few years. I think that should continue in the future when you see the [per caps] of both our snacks and our
beverage categories in the -- around the world and the U.S.
We see a lot of opportunities in snacks by moving unpackaged to packaged, that's a huge trend. We're seeing that our snacks business benefits a
lot by urbanization. And as we see people moving into big cities in developing markets, that's a huge opportunity.
We have a very good playbook on how we develop per caps of our snacks business. I think we'll keep qualifying that better and better. And we
have a very, I think, a quite advantaged playbook and we're demonstrating that in many markets around the world. So you should see us continue
to invest in our snacks business internationally, and that should be a big engine of growth for us.
When you go to the beverage category, the same principles in terms of how big is the growth opportunity as consumers are moving from, I would
say, noncommercial liquids to more commercial liquids everywhere in the world. And they're -- the nuance in our strategy is, obviously, we have
another competitor that is trying to develop a category with us. And then we have to be smart where we have a, I would say, a higher growth share
position -- a higher share position, versus a medium share position, versus a large share position. And our strategy needs to change, obviously. It
doesn't mean then we're not going to aspire to gain share in every single market around the world, but the tools we use and the number of
complexities we choose to add to the business will be different depending on the market position we play in every market. So that's the nuance
between the beverage and the snacks business.
You should see international as a huge growth opportunity for us globally for many, many years to come. And I think we're realizing them, you see
the numbers that we're posting every quarter, and they show the -- both the top line and the bottom line opportunity that, that has for PepsiCo
going forward.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Powers of Deutsche Bank.
Stephen Robert R. Powers - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division - Research Analyst
Great. So maybe to build on some of what you said, I think, in response to Alex' question. I just want to step back and validate your confidence in
being able to resume your long-term algorithm come 2020, that 4% to 6% top line, 20 to 30 basis points margin improvement formula. Because
despite the first half investments, your guidance, as Hugh highlighted in his remarks, seems to allow for some deceleration in the back half on the
tougher comps. So, I guess, I'm first trying to understand how confident you are in your ability to maintain first half top line momentum, not only
in the back half, but out to 2020 and beyond. And then, secondly, to the extent you are able to sustain or accelerate the top line from here, do you
see all businesses now being in a position to contribute to necessary margin improvement come 2020 or will certain businesses require another
year of more investment beyond 2019?
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Listen, I think, obviously, we stayed true to the long-term guidance that we gave a few months ago, right? Like 5 or 6 months ago. We thought very
carefully about that framework for growth, and we obviously are seeing that we're capable of delivering that. And we have the portfolio of categories
and the portfolio of geographies that allow us to deliver that on a sustained basis. Assuming that we make the right choices around productivity
of our investments and we make the right choices on where we put this money for investment, the capabilities we're building and what we're
planning to innovate, I think we stayed true to that long-term framework.
8
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
The -- remember, when we talked about our investment year for 2019, we said that, first, we did a few things, right, in the process. First, we looked
at existing budgets and we tried to reallocate those budgets into the areas that would give us the better returns, so that have been internal.
Second, we said we're going to really double down on our productivity, and that productivity would be reinvested for growth, and we're doing
that in the sense that our productivity is quite strong and we're reinvesting. And, third, we said we probably need a year of additional reinvestments
that would put a solid foundation for the years to come, whether it is A&M, whether it's in some of the other capabilities we talked about or capacities
in terms of manufacturing or supply chain. So we're doing all that.
With that, we feel pretty good about the future. Yes, the company, as you see in many of our industry, we need to keep investing to transforming
ourselves, right? So this is, I think, a never-ending story for the future in terms of systems, in terms of new technologies, in terms of adding new
brands. So there will continue to be additional investment needs in the company going forward. I think we can fund most of them with our
productivity efforts and reallocating existing budgets, which, in a company of our size, we can make a lot of discretionary decisions on what our
priority is year-after-year. So I don't know if, Hugh, you have anything else to add, but that's how we see, as a management team, the following 3,
4 years.
Hugh F. Johnston - PepsiCo, Inc. - Vice Chairman, Executive VP & CFO
Right, I agree with that. And, Steve, just to add a little bit to it, as Ramon mentioned, we said we expect to be back on algorithm come 2020. You
know, as a management team, we've been pretty disciplined about talking about next year in February when we get to next year. So I think, with
the context Ramon has given you, we'll talk about more details next February.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Andrea Teixeira of JPMorgan.
Andrea Faria Teixeira - JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division - MD
I have a follow-up and then a margin question. So can you comment on the state of the consumer in the U.S., as alluded before? The results this
morning have been supportive, but this kind of data has been softer as of late. Is this just a timing or weather-related or are you seeing the consumer
a bit more cautious? And on the gross margin, Hugh, you have called out the timing of commodity pressures in the first quarter earnings and into
the second quarter, but the gross margin still expanded as well, so have we cycled most of the pressures?
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, to comment on the consumer and then Hugh can talk on the gross margin. We're seeing, in our snacks business, macro snacks pretty healthy
growth. We're seeing good acceleration versus previous years. The number of occasions are going up. The price per occasion is growing nicely, as
you saw. And we're capturing above fair share of that growth as a company. So in snacks, I see a lot of good tailwind.
In terms of beverages, it's been a little bit erratic and quite linked to weather, actually. So we've seen -- you take the Q2, the second quarter, we
had a fantastic April, but then somehow a lower May and June from the snacks point of view because the weather has been quite wet and cold,
and that obviously impacts some parts of the category, especially the hydration-related parts of the business. We're seeing it coming back, so it's
good. We see a healthy consumer, a consumer that -- where price elasticities are good. And so we cannot see any signals that tells us the consumer
is slowing down, at least in our categories, right, which are low-priced, quite routine category that are very well-penetrated, very high-penetrated
across all the U.S.
9
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
Hugh F. Johnston - PepsiCo, Inc. - Vice Chairman, Executive VP & CFO
Yes. And then on gross margins and drag. Yes, you're right, I mentioned in the last call, I think, that the tougher comparisons were in the first half.
As you know, on commodities, we tend to lock about 6 to 9 months out, so we get high visibility into the back half. And the commodities comparison
in the back half get a little bit easier.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Kaumil Gajrawala of Credit Suisse.
Kaumil S. Gajrawala - Crédit Suisse AG, Research Division - MD & Research Analyst
Ramon, you mentioned on several occasions the effective mix or the premium product channel mix, pack sizes, all of which sound like long-term
trends. Can you give us a bit of a read on how much mix contributed in this quarter? And then also, given that's where, it seems like, much of the
CapEx is going and where your capabilities are expanding, how we should maybe think about mix as part of your algorithm longer term.
Hugh F. Johnston - PepsiCo, Inc. - Vice Chairman, Executive VP & CFO
Yes, Kaumil, I'm happy to comment on that. Obviously, it moves around quite a bit, depending on which portion of the year we're in, which
businesses are doing well, but it's probably been, on average, contributing about a point.
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, if you think about some of the capabilities we're trying to build for the company, and we're not the only ones in this consumer goods space,
we are building this capability in net revenue management. Net revenue management is a combination of insights, analytics and ability to manage
channels and consumer innovation and branding. And that is a capability we're going to keep evolving, right? Because the likelihood of consumers
willing to pay more for the same thing is going to reduce, right, going forward. So we need to be able to give the consumer much more value
through different ways, and that's a capability we're -- I think we're good at, we're going to get better at. And we -- the fact that we have -- we tend
to control our execution all the way to the consumer in many channels, I think that gives us a competitive advantage going forward.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Nik Modi of RBC.
Sunil Harshad Modi - RBC Capital Markets, LLC, Research Division - MD of Tobacco, Household Products and Beverages
Ramon, maybe you can just give us a state of the union on the NAB reorganization. Any early learnings, any hiccups? Anything you can share on
that would be helpful.
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, that's good. This is a -- thank you for asking. This is going to be, I think, a factor to our continued sustained performance in the future in NAB.
I think the fact that we're able to understand the U.S. market as one full market and then able to segment it into pieces and execute with local
relevance is going to be, I think, a driver of growth for us and sustained growth and for us to be better serving our customers and much more
nuance ways, so that was the extension.
10
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
The -- as any large restructuring, you're dealing with the people issues, right? I've seen moving families location to location, all that. I think that's
pretty much behind now during this summer time. Most of the families will move and we'll have everybody in place and ready to execute full mind.
So, obviously, I think we started in March. Now it's July, so we've had 3, 4 months now of a little bit of transition, I would say, in the business. And
I think the management has done a great job in terms of working diligently to get people in place. I'm sure the employees were treated by the
company, and I think we're there.
We should see the benefits of what this organization should deliver in the second half of the year, but most important is the move we're making
for the future. So in terms of distribution in the more popular parts of the business in terms of how do we serve regional customers, how do we
segment our consumer strategies depending on our market positions in the different states, in all those capabilities we didn't have so much in the
past should be reflected in the new -- in the organization.
So we're feeling good. And as always, it's been a process of people management and talent management. And as you can imagine, this is a lot of
people, right, and so -- but it's behind us now.
Operator
Your next question comes from Bonnie Herzog of Wells Fargo.
Bonnie Lee Herzog - Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Research Division - MD and Senior Beverage & Tobacco Analyst
I was hoping you could update us on SodaStream and some of your initiatives around reducing or even eliminating packaging. And then are there
any examples beyond SodaStream to which you can point where you're actively working, again, to eliminate packaging?
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes. The -- SodaStream is doing very well, right? I mean it's exceeding our expectations in terms of the growth potential and growth execution. So
we're feeling good, we're understanding more about this platform. We're starting to put more of the PepsiCo capabilities against the SodaStream
business, especially around flavors and around some of the consumer experience with flavors, which I think were underoptimized direct-to-consumer
capabilities. So we're trying to insert some capabilities into SodaStream, but we're running it as a separate business that should be agile and nimble
and going after actually disrupting the bottle business. That's the strategy and that is how we want to run this business going forward.
In terms of how we're looking at the plastic reduction, plastic waste reduction, a couple of things. Obviously, SodaStream is a big one for us, and
we made some commitments recently in the U.S. and we'll continue to make commitments across the world in terms of -- so what we did in the
U.S., I don't know if you read it recently, LIFEWTR will be 100% recycled brand, recycled PET brand. We will have no plastics on bubly. And we're
going to be testing Aquafina in cans in some parts of the U.S., mostly in the West Coast.
We made a commitment in the European Union that we'll be 50% recycled by 2030 (inaudible). We're also exploring some [circular] waste
management opportunities with our snacks bags in the Europe, especially in the U.K., and also in India. So we're really exploring a lot of the physical
circularity and making some commitments on which packaging solutions we'll use.
Long term, obviously, we have efforts in the chemical recycling and new materials and alliances with other players in the value chain of chemical
industry and the collection industry and some of our partners in the brand business, competitors and noncompetitors, where we're trying to make
a difference in ingredient and material solutions, chemical recycling, collection systems, everything else to try to minimize this plastic gone into
waste versus plastic coming back into our systems and thus being able to provide the consumers with what I think a very affordable and functional
solutions, but they don't go to waste, right? So that's the principle.
11
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
Operator
Your next question comes from Kevin Grundy of Jefferies.
Kevin Michael Grundy - Jefferies LLC, Research Division - Senior VP & Equity Analyst
Ramon, I had a question on a couple brands in North America Beverages. So Mountain Dew, which has clearly been an area of focus, but the brand
continues to lose some share based on what we see in the syndicated data. Can you give us an update there on your strategy to stabilize the share
trends? And then maybe you could just briefly touch on bubly, which has done quite well but the distribution has ramped up here and then you
spend some money behind advertising. Maybe talk about how you see the opportunity for that brand now with distribution looking rather full.
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes, thank you. You're right on the 2 diagnostics. I think we have an opportunity in Mountain Dew to recover share, and we have a huge opportunity
ahead of us in bubly in creating a whole new category of beverages.
So on Dew, we're -- we tried to approach -- we had to work on Pepsi, we had to work on Mountain Dew, we had to work on Gatorade. I think we're
feeling good about Pepsi, we're feeling good about Gatorade. Now we're going fully into Mountain Dew investments. We have ramped up A&M,
started in April, May, we're quite heavy across the summer and then in Q4. We have a lot of innovation as well that should help the core Dew
consumer to have more options in what is a high-loyalty brand.
The -- we have -- next to Mountain Dew, there is the energy category, right? So we're trying to move Dew into the energy category in small steps.
Kickstart was one that we did. Kickstart is -- was a great platform. It decreased a little bit, it's starting to go up again. That should solidify Mounting
Dew.
And then we just launched Mountain Dew, again, Fuel to put one foot into the energy category with a differentiated position and more towards
the gaming and that kind of demand opportunity. It is doing very well. We plan to continue to innovating that segment.
The numbers you see for Mountain Dew do not include game fuel, so that's -- it is part of the brand, but it's not in all of your information systems,
that's, in short, part of the Dew brand. But that's how we see the brand growing.
We're investing in the core Dew consumer, very loyal, giving them their preferred product in non-sugar and sugar options, innovating in flavors
in Dew and then moving Dew slowly into other spaces where we've seen the brand has a role to play and that we were able to formulate products
that will be very competitive in that space as well.
Sorry, on bubly, we're super happy, really, with this opportunity. And sparkling water is always -- it's been underdeveloped in the U.S. if you compare
with some of the European markets, and we saw there was a big opportunity there. I think the R&D team did an amazing job. We have a very good
product and we see that by the levels of repeat and loyalty we're creating with some of those flavors.
I think the personality of the brand is fun, it's modern, it's young. So the consumers are coming back to bubly. Bubly has double velocity. I mean
really, it's double velocity per point of distribution in the last 3, 4 months after the Super Bowl with this new advertising.
I agree with you that there's a lot of distribution opportunities, yes, and it takes a while for our partners, our retailer partners to give these brands
that are growing so fast the right space in the store. Obviously, there's a lot of dialogues with our partners, retail partners to expand bubly space.
So we see this brand as a brand of the future. We're going to be innovating in this brand and on these flavors, that other occasions that I think we
can attack. You're going to see mini cans, you're going to see larger cans. It is going to be a no-plastic brand. I think that is a very, very good
positioning that we can have for this brand going forward for the modern consumer, the millennial, and the younger mother that I think is adopting
this brand for her kids.
12
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
So we're feeling very good about this brand. This could be one of our next $1 billion brands. That's our goal with the NAB team, and they're executing
every step of the way with a lot of precision. So we're very, very happy with this new brand in our portfolio.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Ottenstein of ISI.
Robert Edward Ottenstein - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division - Senior MD, Head of Global Beverages Research & Fundamental
Research Analyst
Ramon, in your opening comments, you talked about evolving the culture of the company. Wondering if you could give us a little bit more granularity
on what that means. Perhaps talk about what you saw on the culture as you were there and took the helm, what you liked about it, what you
thought needed changing and then, more specifically, how you're implementing those changes? Have they maybe reinforced with your incentive
programs?
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes. Thanks. Great question. I think we're convinced that the culture will be a competitive advantage for us going forward, and that's why the whole
management team is spending a lot of time in, first, defining a set of leadership behaviors that we think are core to PepsiCo, and we call this The
PepsiCo Way. And now rolling out those behaviors across the company in every geography.
And it's been quite exciting to go around the company and see how fast the organization is embracing these behaviors, and it makes us very
optimistic about the future.
The behaviors, there's a few that are critical for U.S. investors and should empower performance. One of them is being very consumer-centric. So
we want to have an organization that creates a lot of values, a lot of value for the company and for the investors by being -- by understanding the
consumer with a lot of details, making decisions around innovation, but not only innovation, but the whole management of the company around
the consumer. I think, long term, that's going to give us a lot of differentiation and market share.
Then there's a lot of -- there's a few values around how -- about speed and ownership, which I think is -- if you think about large companies of our
scale and the competitors we have in the marketplace, we need to act with speed and we need to act as owners, right? And that's something that
you can lose over time because sometimes we become more internal than we should and we become more process-driven than we should. So
what we're trying to do is make sure that our -- each one of our employees feels that he is an owner of the company and that he is expected to act
with empowerment and speed and simplicity. And we're trying to simplify our processes and allow people to really behave as owners in the
company.
Of course, integrity is core to our values. And when we operate in so many countries around the world, that has to be core to our -- the way we
operate. And then there's values around raising talent and diversity. And I would think that, long term, for companies like ours, bringing in new
capabilities and making sure the new generations feel very good in our company would create environment for them to thrive is critical. So we're
trying to also put talent and diversity at the center of those leadership behaviors and how we recruit the best and how we make sure that they feel
that this is a place where they can make a difference and they can voice their opinions and challenge the status quo and make sure that, that is
part of how we run the business, right, with diversity and making sure that everyone has a point of view and everyone has a -- feels that they have
the right to have that point of view heard by everybody around the company. Of course, then we can only do a few things and we will have to
make the choices and everything else, but that culture is critical.
So speed and ownership, talent and diversity and opinion, consumer centricity, integrity, those are some of the values that we want to reinforce.
It's not that we don't have it, but we think it's just worth reemphasizing, with the final output being a great company that is focused on growth
and creates value with winning in the marketplace.
13
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
And of course, we don't want to lose the purpose. I think purpose is critical in any company, in any organization, in any individual today. And
especially if you talk to new generations, they feel very strong about making a difference in the planet. So we want to make sure that purpose is
part of our commercial strategy, that our brands talk purpose, that our commercial teams talk about purpose and our organizations are very well
rooted in every community, making a difference in how people live around us, right?
So that is the -- those are the different components of the culture change that we're making. And as I said, I feel extremely excited because everybody
is embracing this and, obviously, we're traveling a lot around the world, and where I see how people are talking about those behaviors and that
language very consistently across the company.
Operator
Your next question comes from Laurent Grandet of Guggenheim.
Laurent Daniel Grandet - Guggenheim Securities, LLC, Research Division - Senior Analyst and MD of the Consumer & Retail Team
Building on Lauren's question, I'd like to understand how you see an international brand or platform expansion in beverages specifically. So we
were surprised by the launch of the Lavazza lineup in the U.K. Is that a departure from a potential Starbucks partnership outside of the Americas
or do you think both brands could potentially coexist in the future? So, basically, how your coffee strategy is evolving here. And then on Gatorade,
we keep talking about the U.S., but I'd like to understand your plans to make the brand more available outside of the U.S. please.
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
So 2 things. Obviously, Starbucks is our very strong partner for many years and we value that relationship. It's a super -- I would say we've very
aligned. Were building I think a very powerful business together in the U.S. and some other parts of the world.
Unfortunately, in Europe, Starbucks had some previous relationships, and that's why we wanted to compete in the coffee space, we needed to find
another partner, and that's Lavazza. We chose Lavazza. So there's nothing in terms of, I would say, the relationship. On the contrary, it's an extremely
powerful relationship where we're creating a lot of value for both companies, just the European piece is a bit of a separate relationship because of
existing contracts, et cetera.
In terms of the Gatorade brand, this is really a global brand in terms of consumer understanding and consumer awareness. We just made some
priorities in the past of Latin America, U.S. and China being the core markets where we want to build this brand. In the markets like Western Europe
or Eastern Europe, we're choosing much more of an e-commerce type of way to develop the brand. So a lighter investment, if you wish. But it's a
big priority for us and it's a brand that we think we have a competitive advantage in terms of the product solutions. And clearly, the brand is very
well-recognized and it's very well-perceived by many consumers around the world because of the sport -- the assets that we have in the sports
world. And, obviously, people watch TV everywhere, right? So they can see the soccer, the football, the basketball, any of our assets, and the brand
continues to develop. So you should see us both working on coffee and sports around the world.
Operator
Your next question comes from Caroline Levy of Macquarie.
Caroline Shan Levy - Macquarie Research - Senior Analyst
Just very briefly if you could touch on what you're seeing in terms of the macros in -- you mentioned Brazil being very strong and some other
countries. Is that -- is the Brazil really just a onetime comp issue? But more importantly was a more strategic question around price/mix realization,
because historically in the world of bottling where you own distribution, price/mix is more valuable than volume because there's less incremental
14
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
costs associated with that in delivering new volume. And so I'm just wondering if, over time, that holds true, that your margins will improve as a
function of price/mix improving given that you own your distribution.
Hugh F. Johnston - PepsiCo, Inc. - Vice Chairman, Executive VP & CFO
So, yes, Carolyn, it's Hugh. In general, I think that the macros down in Brazil are slowly improving. We talked about the fact that we were lapping
some extraordinary things, which made for our very high growth rate in the quarter in Brazil, but I do think we see the macros there slowly improving.
In addition to that, we are using the playbook that Ramon referred to in terms of building out our salty snack business and being very methodical
about it. It's a business that I've been around for a long time and has gone through multiple cycles. But I really do feel that, with the leadership we
have both at the sector level as well as at the business unit level, we've got the right people to execute and build that business in a very solid
foundational brick-by-brick way to build another good profit platform for PepsiCo.
As regards the specifics of the beverage business, I think our interest with the bottler in that market are very well aligned, so we benefit both from
volume and from price/mix. And I expect we'll continue to work closely with them to improve what's obviously a relatively small beverage business
for us.
Operator
Your next question comes from Bill Chappell of SunTrust.
William Bates Chappell - SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., Research Division - MD
Just a question on the energy category. I mean I get and I think most of you that you are not interested in buying some of the smaller brands that
are out there. But I'm surprised that we haven't heard or seen something about a Pepsi energy drink. And I understand that Mountain Dew and
you have other kind of plays in the energy market, but is there something that, on the cola flavor, you don't think that plays as well in the energy
market? Or you don't see as much opportunity be it outside the U.S. for the Pepsi brand and other flavors for the Pepsi brand? Just trying to
understand especially with what Coke has said and kind of their optimism about the Coke energy product, why we haven't seen a Pepsi energy
product.
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
Yes. All right. Good question. The energy is clearly a growing market across the world, and we think that the consumer will continue to ask for
products that gives them the functionality of higher energy or boost. We're approaching this from many angles, right? From the coffee, from the
sports, from obviously the energy category itself, right? So we're capturing some of those occasion already now.
In the case of U.S. energy, we have a pretty good partner for many years with ROCKSTAR being our partner, and we've been playing in this segment
for a few years together, and it's working also in some international markets. So we plan, obviously, to continue that relationship, innovating and
see how we can accelerate our participation in that growth category.
With regards to Pepsi energy or Coke energy, I mean those are -- we're all trying, I think, as a strategy to make our global brands play more spaces,
right? So we're trying to do that with Lay's or we're trying to do that with Doritos or we're trying to do that with Pepsi.
Pepsi, actually, if you see our growth internationally, it's a lot on flavors, Pepsi flavors, a lot on Pepsi non-sugar, Zero. And obviously, Pepsi regular
in multiple formats.
15
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
I think we will keep expanding Pepsi into other spaces, whether it's energy or some other spaces. We'll see when we get to the market. If you look
at the -- if you think about the core energy consumer, it's looking for something different than what brand Coke or brand Pepsi can offer. I'm not
saying that there will not be occasions where some of those consumers will go into our brands, but I think they're looking for different propositions.
And if you think about Red Bull, Monster or ROCKSTAR or some of the other brands that are capturing majority of that space, they have a very
different proposition, right?
So I'm not saying it's not a big business opportunity. I'm saying that it's not going to be the center of the category, I think. But more to see in the
coming quarters, and kind of we'll keep thinking about how do we make our brands, our global brands play in more spaces because that is a very
high return on investment normally for us, as you can see with Gatorade Zero, with Pepsi Zero, those are -- when you put your big brands into new
spaces, that is a huge, huge, huge business opportunity.
Operator
Your next question comes from Amit Sharma of BMO Capital.
Amit Sharma - BMO Capital Markets Equity Research - Analyst
Ramon, a question for you. You talked about stronger growth in the convenience store channel as one of the reasons for, maybe, a little bit more
price/mix that we saw, especially for the snacks business. Can you talk about that dynamic in terms of online? As you grow your online business,
should that also be a price/mix positive from a relative contribution perspective and then the relative size of your businesses online at this time?
Hugh F. Johnston - PepsiCo, Inc. - Vice Chairman, Executive VP & CFO
Yes, Amit. It's Hugh. Yes, what we said in the past is our online business is over $1 billion. And generally speaking, it is going to tend towards smaller
packages. So it's not going to be the multiserve -- it will tend towards multipacks and singles and things like that. So generally speaking, that is
going to be a positive from a mix perspective. Obviously, we're in very early days on online, but my expectation is, as that market continues to
evolve, it will be both premium in all likelihood, more singles and multipacks.
Operator
Your next question comes from the line of Sean King of UBS.
Sean Roberts King - UBS Investment Bank, Research Division - Equity Research Analyst of Beverages
I believe you mentioned a few specific reinvestment areas over the last couple of quarters, including small can capacity and for your variety packs.
Where do you stand against those specific initiatives? And are you still, I guess, capacity constrained?
Ramon Luis Laguarta - PepsiCo, Inc. - Chairman & CEO
The -- we're putting capacity against that. And I think, as I mentioned before, I think this is going to be a long-term consumer trend. Consumers
are looking for variety packs and consumers are looking for smaller portion packs. So we've put a lot of capacity in place. What we're seeing that
the more capacity we put, we still are behind demand in some of those packs, in some of the geographies around the world. So we're going to
have to keep investing in those formats. And it's a great product to have, I would say, that you have a lot of demand for your business and that you
need to put capacity at very high-margin parts of your business. So, yes, I think we're putting capacity, but we're seeing that the consumer is ready
to buy more of our products in those formats. You'll see more of that -- of those CapEx going in the future.
16
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call
Client Id: 77
So thank you for the time and participation in the call. It's been very, I think, open, the dialog.
To conclude, we're pleased with our results for the second quarter and for the first half of the year. We're executing well against our key priorities.
We remain on track to achieve our 2019 financial goals. And we thank you for the confidence that you've placed in us with your investment. Thank
you.
Operator
Thank you for participating in PepsiCo's Second Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. You may now disconnect.
DISCLAIMER
Thomson Reuters reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION,
THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON REUTERS OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME
ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE
COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
©2019, Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 12541578-2019-07-09T16:06:41.097
17
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its
affiliated companies.
JULY 09, 2019 / 11:45AM, PEP - Q2 2019 PepsiCo Inc Earnings Call