
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 1
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC. 
Moderator: Craig Maurer
November 3, 2020
3:00 p.m. ET
Craig Maurer: This is Craig Maurer with Autonomous Research. Thanks again for 
everybody joining. And special thanks to John for agreeing to do this today 
and discuss PayPal’s results and thank Gabrielle and Akila for arranging 
today’s call. It’s all very much appreciated. John, how are you doing after 
what was clearly a busy evening? 
John Rainey: We’re doing well, Craig. Thanks for asking. And I trust everyone on the line 
as well and I hope you are too. 
Craig Maurer: Thank you. So, let’s, let’s jump right in. PayPal just reported what’s likely its 
strongest quarter in recent history, if not, ever. So, my first question is, what 
do you think might need additional clarification following last night’s call if 
you were to read what the questions were coming in? 
John Rainey: Well, I guess I’d start with, if you step back, we just reported our highest 
volume and revenue growth in our history and our second highest EPS 
growth. And we’re well on track to achieve over $5 billion in free cash flow 
this year. So, our business is performing exceedingly well. 
It’s certainly challenging times in terms of looking out into the future and 
being able to provide, I think, an estimate as we look over the next 14 months 
and perhaps there’s – I certainly appreciate that everybody wants that 
transparency, but we, as I noted in my remarks yesterday, that’s something 
that we’ve got to balance with reliability and certainty. 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 2
And we – I think we’ve always been a company that has tried to provide 
transparent information even going back to 2016 when that was the first time 
that we gave the next year’s guidance on our third quarter call, and in part 
because there was asymmetric information at that point in time in terms of 
what our transaction expense was going to be related to choice. 
And we’ve continued that trend and we’d hope to do that in the future, but as 
we’ve looked at the myriad options out there in terms of when stimulus could 
come in, what the magnitude of that would be, the uncertainty around the 
election, the holiday season, shopping, all of that, there was just too much 
variability to really provide a constructive guide to 2021. 
But rest assured, we’ll provide that information when we get to our next 
quarter’s call. But I don’t want that to take away from what’s really 
happening in our business and that we are performing very well. And I think 
clearly, irrespective of kind of what’s your thoughts on many of the things that 
I mentioned, as you look at our business over the longer term, it’s on a higher 
growth profile than what it was prior to the pandemic. 
Craig Maurer: Yes, thank you for that. So, I want to just quickly get to what’s been, by far, 
the most popular topic with incoming questions, which is the take rate. So, 
you called out four equal contributors during the sell-side call last night – P2P 
growth, hedging losses, lower credit growth and merchant mix. 
Can we unpack this commentary a bit and pay special attention to the impact 
of credit because I think there has been quite a bit of confusion there in terms 
of how to conceptualize, how that hits the take rate? 
John Rainey: Sure. Let me address each of those but do credit last because I’ll talk about 
the implications for 2021 because we could have been, I think, more articulate 
in the way that we responded to that yesterday. So, I want to clarify some of 
that. 
Let’s start with hedging. We had a $17 million hedge loss this quarter 
compared to a $70 million hedge gain of the prior year. So, that’s an $87 
million delta. And if you’re looking at our total take rate, that’s almost 5 bps 
of that – of that delta. 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 3
The second area is P2P, and again, as we’ve consistently noted, we’ll happily 
take the effect of this because those P2P customers are our best customers and 
most engaged. And we saw 47 percent growth in our volume in this last 
quarter contributing to the record TPV growth that we had. 
Then we get to mix in our business. And mix, I would include two primary 
things, both the travel and events verticals, which are down 40 percent yearover-year [TPV] [on a volume basis], as well as the effect of eBay. And 
again, that’s – if we’re using rough math, about 25 percent of the delta there 
and take rate. 
And then the last piece is credit. And while we are still growing the consumer
– international consumer credit portfolio, the merchant receivables portfolio 
contracted by 33 percent. And that has, obviously, an effect on our (total) 
take rate as well as our margin. And that was, actually, probably, the single 
largest contributor of anything that we’ve talked about. 
As we look forward into next year, we certainly would hope that credit will 
rebound some, but given the macro outlook, I think the expectation right now 
is that it’s not going to be performing at the overall growth rate of the 
company. And so when you think about whatever percentage rate of growth 
of revenue and earnings that one would estimate for us, credit is going to be 
something slightly less than that. 
Now, related to that is also the reserve coverage that we have there. As we 
noted in the – in the quarter, our reserve coverage increased from 22 percent 
to 24 percent, and that’s largely because of contraction in the portfolio versus 
additional reserves related to the macro adjustment. 
As we look forward into 2021, there are probably those on the call that are 
better prepared to estimate the effect there than I am, but it is – it’s possible 
that we could actually see a reversal of some of the reserve coverage that we 
have there if the economy were to improve, if there were more stimulus 
measures. And so that could – that could vacillate as a positive or a negative 
in 2021. 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 4
Craig Maurer: Yes. And just to add some additional detail there, it should – it will take time 
as well even as credit starts to recover because you’re driving revenue on 
average balances. So, it will take some time for that average effect to start to 
recover longer than it might for ending balances, correct? 
John Rainey: That’s precisely correct, yes. 
Craig Maurer: OK. And ... 
John Rainey: So, even – and just to add to that, so, even if we see a rebound in credit, 
there’s a little bit of a lag there. So, as – and I only mentioned this because we 
were asked a question yesterday about some of the puts and takes in our 
business. And this, to me, is one of the areas that will still be a headwind to 
our overall growth that we have to manage with all the other tailwinds that we 
have. 
Craig Maurer: Right, and just for those on – those listening, also, the RSA [Receivables Sale 
Agreement] with Synchrony, you’re not affected by Synchrony’s decisions on 
reserving but, in fact, only affected if losses begin to rise, correct? 
John Rainey: That is correct. 
Craig Maurer: OK, OK. 
John Rainey: But I think that’s an important callout. Just in general, the RSA with 
Synchrony is one of the elements that affect our financials next year that 
we’ve got to consider. 
Craig Maurer: OK. If we could decompose the mix a little bit further, Paymentus and bill 
pay is an – is an exciting opportunity. So, if I remember you correctly, that’s 
at about a 1 percent take rate coming on. So, how should we think about an 
organic growth rate for bill pay going forward and as we build the mix of 
TPV, which is changing a little bit? 
John Rainey: So, bill pay is an important addition to our product portfolio. So, it’s not just 
Paymentus. I mean that’s certainly the big launch that we just completed this 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 5
quarter and we’re excited about that, it’s progressing very well, and you’re 
generally correct with respect to the take rate on that. 
But bill pay more broadly is something that – is a capability we want to 
provide to the wallet. And you’re right in that it carries a lower take rate, but 
let me – let me dissect that a little bit because I think sometimes, there’s too 
much of a fixation on take rate and the implications for a business. 
So, just as take rate has a low – or I’m sorry, just as bill pay has a lower take 
rate, it has a much, much lower transaction expense as well. And so, the thing 
that we focus on as a business is how do we grow those transaction margin 
dollars looking at the spread between those two. 
And as you saw, we, in the quarter, expanded our transaction margin over 300 
basis points and our operating margin almost 400 basis points. And that’s 
what we’re really focused on, growing our business and doing it at a . . . high 
incremental margin. 
And so, bill pay provides capabilities that our consumer base desires and gives 
more utility to our wallet. So, we don’t want to overly fixate on trying to 
maximize take rate when it might be at the expense of engagement and 
transaction expense as well. 
Craig Maurer: OK, that makes sense. Continuing down the mix – the mix question, eBay, 
you discussed, will add an additional 150 basis points of drag in the fourth 
quarter. Help us think about the go-forward math on eBay’s transition to 
manage payments assuming PayPal retains 50 percent or 60 percent checkout 
at a take rate of roughly 2 percent or about half of the prior take rate. It 
sounds like about 75 percent of the transition is still remaining for ’21 but at a 
faster rate than originally expected. 
John Rainey: So, let me – let me back up just a step on this because I think it’s important. 
In January of 2018, when eBay announced this, you might remember that our 
stock declined, it’s probably 10 percent, if I remember correctly, and there 
were a lot of concerns about the impact of – on our – on our business. 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 6
And what we’ve said at that point in time still holds true today. And in fact, 
what’s happening is precisely consistent with our expectations back at that 
point, January of 2018. And that is such that we would expect by the end of 
2021 for that migration to be largely complete. 
And of the – of the merchants that have migrated over to their Managed 
Payments experience that we would expect to retain approximately 50 percent 
share checkout, which was our experience with others that had gone down that 
path. What we’re seeing is they’re basically on track for what that is. 
Now, earlier this year when they had more difficulty ramping up in the U.S. 
and Germany, we metered our expectations for the back half of this year 
simply because we saw- we saw that they were ramping up more slowly. 
But if you – if you step back and you look at the bigger picture, from the 
moment of the announcement to the end of next year, it’s right on track with 
what we expected. The one pleasant, if I can call it a surprise, is that that 50 
percent share of checkout that we talked about is actually less than what we’re 
experiencing. We’re experiencing a higher share of checkout, 59 percent to 
be precise, in the areas or the entities where they’ve launched their Managed 
Payments experience. And so, generally consistent with what we said but 
better. 
And so, we’ll provide more insight into this when we give our guidance for 
2021, but the takeaway that I’d want everybody to have from this is this is 
very manageable for us. 2021, it was always going to be the year where we 
had the most significant impact, but it wasn’t going to be some outsized 
impact that totally changes the growth trajectory that we’re on or for that
matter, the medium-term guidance . . . that we previously issued. 
So, this is something that as they ramped through the year, we’ll see the 
impact on our business, but we think that this is very manageable both from a 
growth rate perspective or more specifically, a revenue growth rate 
perspective as well as a margin perspective. We’ve been able to demonstrate 
four or five years now that as we’ve shifted volume away from eBay, we’ve 
still been able to expand our margins and we’ll continue to do that. 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 7
Craig Maurer: OK, thank you. And the – and the way this transition is happening, you may –
you said last night, you’re seeing volume transition faster than merchants in 
terms of share. So, I assume that there will still be some that drags on beyond 
‘21 but it just wouldn't be impactful. Is that a good way to think about that? 
John Rainey: I think that’s generally, a good way to think about that. And I do want to 
pause here for a second, Craig. Our Senior Vice President of Finance Erica 
Gessert is on the call and she might have something to add to this after I 
answer your question. 
But what I pointed to last night was that I believe eBay’s comment was that 
they’ve migrated 344,000 merchants. And I don’t know off the top of my 
head their total number of merchants, but for argument’s sake, let’s say that 
that’s 20 percent. 
My point was that it would be reasonable to assume that the volume that’s 
migrated is greater than 20 percent because they would likely focus on those 
merchants that have more volume initially and worry about that long tail at the 
end. 
And it’s precisely for that reason that we would expect getting to the question 
you just asked that by the end of next year, this is largely complete and it 
would not be unreasonable to assume that eBay could be 1 percent to 2 
percent of our business by the end of next year if you look at what’s happened 
historically. And so, my strong desire is that come 2022, we’re not talking 
about this anymore. 
Erica Gessert: John, thanks. This is Erica. Actually, I’ll just add a couple points on that. I 
mean we’ve seen it. So, we certainly have seen that from a kind of overall 
size of merchants that the volume has – had moved up more rapidly than the 
number of merchants. 
That’s actually one reason why we’re even more delighted with our share of 
checkout because our share of checkout will tend to be the highest with the 
very – with the smallest merchants. And what this shows is that consumers 
are choosing us no matter what size of merchant when they move – when the 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 8
merchants move over to Managed Payments. So, it’s actually – it just makes 
us even more pleased with what we’re seeing as that transition happens. 
The only other thing I would say just to reinforce one of John’s points was, as 
he said and as we’ve been talking about, 2021 was always going to be this 
transition year for us but – and actually, at this point in time, if I look at the 
rest of our business across our business, our core business excluding eBay and 
credit is growing in the 30s right now. We added 35 million customers over 
the past two quarters. The rest of our business is really revving. 
And so, yes, it’s going to be a – it’s going to be a lapping year for us, a 
transition year. We’re going to lap the (great) strong growth we had this year, 
but in many ways, having to go through this transition now couldn’t be a 
better time for us. 
Craig Maurer: So, maybe that’s a – this is a good point just to let you highlight some of the 
successes you might be having with other marketplaces because part of the 
transition off of eBay was all – it came with a promise that you would now be 
able to go after other marketplace businesses. So, maybe you can highlight a 
couple things that are – that have really begun to grow since the – since eBay 
has announced the transition. 
John Rainey: Sure. Well, I think that the main point is, if you look at those other 
marketplaces that we’ve called out, and this is in the investor deck that we put 
out yesterday, they’re growing 4x or 5x what eBay is growing, and this is 
clearly where we want to tie our balloon and this is the future versus a slower 
growing marketplace that faces stiff competition. 
And we’ve done a number of things with Facebook, MercadoLibre, we’re still 
working with others. And just because we haven’t made some announcement 
with another marketplace yet doesn’t mean that we’re not in discussions with 
some of them. 
And so, this is all about really diversifying our portfolio by being an open 
digital payments platform. And that’s what enables us to achieve the kind of 
growth that we’ve seen. I mean, again, if we step back, our merchant services 
TPV growth in the last quarter was 40 percent. And I was asked yesterday by 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 9
someone like how we can accelerate that. I mean – well, you mean accelerate 
the 40 percent number. 
I mean our business is humming, it’s doing as well as it ever has, and I think 
it’s very, very much a result of the strategy that we’ve employed over the last 
several years to make sure that we’re not so beholden to one merchant that 
when that volume shifts that we’re going to see an outsized effect on our 
financials. 
And, in fact, if we get past this moment in time, as I’ve said, 2021, these 
things will largely be passing, where the pure math is we’re going to see our 
growth rates accelerate because we’re less reliant on eBay. 
Craig Maurer: OK. I want to wrap this take rate discussion and move on. So, let me just – if 
we look at the guide for 4Q, it implies that the core take rate ex-eBay could 
bounce back above 2 percent for the quarter, maybe just some commentary 
there. And also, it’s clear, the moving parts in 21, but as we think about your 
business beyond ‘21, is it fair to think that take rate in ‘22 can show 
reacceleration as many of these issues are effectively lapped? 
John Rainey: So, as we move forward to the fourth quarter, if you think about those four 
issues that I called out as being a driver for total take rate, they’re largely 
going to have an impact in 4Q as well. 
While we haven’t specified our hedge – our hedge position, it’s reasonable to 
assume given the weakness of the dollar in the basket of currencies that we 
hedge against that, we would have a similar – be in a similar loss position 
there in the fourth quarter. 
As a reminder, we hedge for the bottom-line for operating income, not 
necessarily to protect revenue growth because we have natural offsets 
elsewhere in the business. So, that said, you’ve got all of those things sort of 
working against us, but by the same token, we have a number of things that 
we’re adding to our platform that can help with this, things like buy now, pay 
layer – pay later, the monetization of Venmo. 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 10
Venmo, by itself, as we noted, we would expect to be $900ish million, 
approaching $1 billion next year. This has largely been a drag on take rate. 
And as we continue to see more engagement there, more customers come into 
our platform and we’re seeing 60 percent-plus growth in that business, this is 
something that could clearly be accretive to take rate as well as the bottomline. 
Craig Maurer: OK. So, since you brought up Venmo, I was hoping you could discuss a little 
bit what’s changing with Venmo, in general, what’s bringing new confidence 
to the idea that pay with Venmo can have success in a way that hasn’t over the 
last few years and ultimately, gets profitability in 2022 as you suggested? 
John Rainey: Sure. So, Venmo, if we step back, we did $44 billion of TPV just in the last 
quarter and we’ve got – it’s one of the fastest areas of growth for us in terms 
of net-new actives. It’s hard to open up a news publication without seeing 
that mentioned in some form, including this morning’s Wall Street Journal, 
there’s an article about it. So, this is a platform or a product that we truly 
covet because of the huge demand for this. 
Now, we’ve talked about ways to monetize that. And all along, we’ve said, 
our focus has been on growth versus trying to make us be in the black because 
we think that’s more important. And we’ve had a number of things, which I 
wouldn't get into because I think the audience is familiar with it in terms of 
how we monetize that. 
But that the area that has proven to be more difficult is the pay with Venmo. 
And in some ways, the goal I was – was moved on us a little bit there as we 
looked at the environment and ecosystem and things like cookies being 
deleted in browser and so forth that that presented challenges for the 
integration approach that we were taking. 
So, we’ve taken a step back in a way to provide that capability in this new 
operating or ecosystem and we’ve got a lot of confidence in that. So, we’ll be 
starting to see that take hold a lot more prominently next year as well as we’ve 
got the addition of things like business profiles on Venmo. 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 11
And the new Venmo credit card, which I know Dan probably couldn’t have 
been more effusive in his opinion about that yesterday, but it’s truly a great 
product and complementary to many of the other things that we’re doing with 
QR code and the Venmo debit card and so forth. 
And so, I think we’re clearly at this inflection point where the question has at 
least been answered at this point in terms of when it is going to be in the black 
as we’ve given – we gave that indication yesterday. And so, it’s something 
that will be both accretive to transaction margin and operating margin and we 
think it’s a – it’s a huge opportunity for us going forward. 
Craig Maurer: OK. 
Erica Gessert: Hey, John, I would just add one quick point on this, which is . . . one of the 
areas of the .. . . business that’s under my purview is pricing, and this includes 
kind of discussions across the board with large merchants and others. 
And I would – I would just say, to me, it’s notable, the number of merchants 
that are asking for Venmo and the number of merchants who are – who are 
wanting to see this included in the – in the packages that we’re bringing them 
whether it’s pay with Venmo through the Web or through QR code or other 
integration, the demand is extremely high. 
So that’s another thing that certainly gives me confidence as we go into next 
year. 
John Rainey: Yes, definitely. 
Craig Maurer: And I presume the increase in demand is being driven – and maybe you can 
help characterize some of this – by a combination of, obviously, the 
pandemic, the moved to e-commerce, but also desire to access the Venmo 
demographics, specifically, it’s a demographic that general purpose credit 
cards might not find as easily. 
John Rainey: That’s precisely correct. And, in fact, going back to the very first 
conversations that we have with merchants around this, the reason that we 
were pulled into this is because as they look at their business and recognized 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 12
the aging demographics and how do they tap into this next generation of 
shoppers, there perhaps is no other platform or technology application out 
there that really captures such a huge piece of that millennial demographic. 
All that said though, Craig, we continued to see the fastest growing part of our 
net-new actives is being this “silver tech”, and that includes Venmo as well. 
And we – my generation or vintage seems to get pulled into this because if 
you’re paying a babysitter or a yoga instructor, whatever it is, that’s one of the 
ways that they want to be paid. 
And I –– I joke about it yesterday on the call, but I thought your comment in 
the Wall Street Journal yesterday was a very cogent point insofar as once you 
begin exchanging cash this way, you don’t tend to go back. There’s actually 
not a lot about cash other than the convenience factor that everyone uses it 
that makes it appealing. No one wants to carry around a wallet of cash to be 
able to pay people if you can do it electronically. 
And so these things, we believe, are very sticky and permanent shifts in 
consumer behavior. And I think both very well for not only PayPal and 
Venmo, but just the digitization of money going forward. 
Craig Maurer: Yes. And just building on Venmo for a minute, you discussed about – not 
discussed but you launched business accounts with Venmo. And what we’ve 
seen during the pandemic and actually have experienced personally is a huge 
number of local business and service providers have actually proactively 
started asking me to pay them with Zelle. And we’ve seen Zelle growth be 
pretty – accelerate pretty dramatically. 
So I’m wondering how does business accounts with Venmo compare with 
what Zelle is trying to do. And are these competitors or are they attacking 
different parts of the market? 
John Rainey: Well, to the extent that it replaces cash through some digital payment and that 
being something that we offer to our customers, yes, you can argue that it’s a 
competitor. But let me be very clear like we’ve seen no impact to our 
volumes from Zelle and – I mean, virtually zilch. And I – and I think you can 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 13
look at this with 61 percent growth in our volume with Venmo. It’s hard to 
say that there is like somebody is eating into our share of market. 
One of the things about Zelle is it lacks interoperability. And so it’s fine if it’s 
among that network of banks, but that’s what the magic of a Venmo or a 
PayPal where it is truly an open digital payments platform. 
That said though like I think we all realize that there’s not going to be a 
winner-take-all in this space. We don’t – we’re not so delusional as to think 
that five years from now everybody in the U.S. is using Venmo to exchange 
cash. I think there will be multiple ways of doing that. 
Our focus is to make sure that we’re one of the primary ways and that we’re 
helping to shape some of these trends by adding functionality to the wallet, by 
improving frictionless experiences and giving people more ways to move and 
manage their money and additional capabilities like bill pay, like crypto. And 
so we’re not standing still here, we’re not flatfooted and we don’t accept our 
leadership position right now. It’s something that is a given going forward, 
which is why we’re investing so much into the future right now. 
Craig Maurer: OK. Because we have limited time I want to move on to Buy Now Pay Later, 
which is clearly taking a big bite. Well, we’ll see if it’ll take a big – it’s really 
big bite long-term out of the consumer credit market. But I want to dig into 
the mechanics of paying for a little bit in terms of where credit risk will lie, 
how will Buy Now Pay Later impact the take rate. If you could dig in a little 
bit there, that’d be helpful. 
John Rainey: Sure. So let me again step back. I think context is important as we provide a 
number of credit products for consumers in the past. And to your point, we’ve 
employed an asset-light type strategy with that. 
But as we look across the marketplace today, one of the areas where we see 
our share of checkout diminish is when these Buy Now Pay Later type 
products are offered because it certainly appeals to certain individuals that 
they don’t necessarily need to have a long-term relationship – credit 
relationship with a financial institution and they’re fine with that point of sale 
credit offering. 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 14
And so we looked across the industry and we thought, OK, well, should we go 
out and acquire some company that does this or should we do this ourselves? 
And this was one of the quickest launches of a product from the inception of 
this work to product launch that we had in our history. And we did it 
organically at a fraction of the cost of what it would take them to acquire this 
capability or functionality. 
And we believe our value proposition is leading on this. And in many ways, 
we are working with merchants to have dynamic presentment, so it’s right 
there even before you click what payment method you want to check out with. 
That’s what others are doing. We’re launching that with Uniqlo right now and 
there’ll be more merchants that we do that with. 
The other thing, which I think is really important, as we think about our 
competitive positioning here is there is no additional fee to a merchant for this 
product offering. So to be clear, let me – let me explain that. So if we charge 
2.9 percent plus $0.30 to a merchant when someone checks out, we still get 
that take rate, but there’s not an incremental fee because they use Buy Now 
Pay Later. And that’s unlike what anyone else in the industry is doing. And 
so this is very much a pricing strategy that is driven more towards increasing 
volume or share checkout versus just a direct monetization effort. 
Looking at the risk and the capital intensity of this, one of the things that’s 
appealing about this is we’re – we’ve launched this product. And typically, 
when you launch a credit product, we saw this in our international consumer 
portfolio. You tend to bear more losses initially. That’s not been the case 
with Buy Now Pay Later because of some of our capabilities. And so it’s –
the risk profile is very attractive. 
The other thing is that relative to its – the revenue that it provides for us, 
because of the short duration of the loans, it’s actually not nearly as capital 
intensive as other parts of credit where you may have outstanding balances 
that reach out six to 12 months. And so this is something that, for now, we 
will keep on our balance sheet. But I would want to remind everyone that we 
have strong conviction around what the appropriate amount of credit in our 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 15
overall portfolio, and we don’t want to be in a position where it becomes too 
capital intensive to us. And so if in the future that – what I described were to 
change, we would – we would look at externalizing some of this. 
Craig Maurer: OK. Buy now – your Buy Now Pay Later offering is positioned a little 
differently than some competitors, like we think of in Affirm where your 
checkout and some of those competitors are at the product level. Do you 
think that’s a disadvantage? 
John Rainey: Well, one of the things that we’ve seen irrespective of the product is the 
further up into the shopping experience that you’re presented the greater the 
likelihood of you being selected in – when one goes to check out. So yes, it is 
an advantage, but it’s not specific to those competitors. As I mentioned, this 
is precisely what we’re doing with merchants like Uniqlo and hope to expand 
this to others. 
The key thing for merchants is what is this doing to drive consumers to check 
out. And that’s something that we’re able to demonstrate with data and by 
having this presentment that there’s a much more – much greater likelihood 
that someone is going to check out and complete that purchase when that 
presentment is further upstream. 
Craig Maurer: OK, thanks for that. I want to move on to the in-store opportunity. It’s 
amazing to see how many partners you have engaged so quickly, and it’s clear 
that versus eight years ago or nine years ago when you tried – when PayPal 
tried this with Home Depot that the excitement for it is vastly different, so it 
feels like a now-or-never-moments for PayPal. 
So one thing that I’m unclear on is how is PayPal and its partners going to –
going to look to drive consumer awareness, engagement and present a value 
proposition? And who will foot the bill for a lot of that – a lot of that work? 
John Rainey: Sure. Well, I’ll start with – I agree that this is a seminal moment in time 
where now is the time where both merchants and consumers are ready to 
adopt this. It’s tough to change consumer behavior when you’re not solving a 
problem for them and, frankly, that was the case historically. That’s 
dramatically changed because of the unfortunate circumstances that we have 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 16
around the global pandemic. And there’s a real concern about not handling 
cash or not touching the keypad on the point-of-sale device. And this is why 
we and many others are taking their contactless capabilities to market here and 
to not invest right now in this, I think it would be a huge missed opportunity. 
That said, this is a – this is a long journey, and I don’t want to mislead anyone 
to think that in the next quarter or two like we’re going to be able to claim 
success on this. Success will be measured in a much longer period of time 
here, but we need to invest into it now, which gets to your question because 
we do need to drive awareness, both on merchants and consumers. And so a 
significant amount of . . . the sales and marketing spend that we’ve earmarked 
for this is just through that. 
And some of that is borne by PayPal, but at the same point in time, Dan used a 
comment yesterday or used a phrase yesterday that we’re being pulled into 
this by merchants. We have merchants that are asking us to come do this. So 
they will, in some cases, bear some of the cost of these sales and marketing 
expenses. 
Craig Maurer: OK. But ultimately, consumers need to see a value proposition. And 
typically that means rewards, and it would seem that you’re competing against 
a low bar because if this is a – with the increasing debit spend, I would think 
that this is largely would mimic a debit card transaction. So what type of 
value can you bring to the transaction from a consumer perspective? Is it cash 
back? Is it utilizing Honey to drive merchant-specific rewards? How should 
we think about that? 
John Rainey: So you are correct in that we can utilize things like Honey not only in ecommerce or online, but in point-of-sale offline as well. But I think more 
broadly as you think about the overall portfolio of products that we have, one 
of the things that is a real opportunity for us is the ability to not just earn 
rewards, but also burn those rewards. So you got an earn element and a burn 
element, so the actual redemption of those. 
And we’re already doing this with issuers today, but plan to expand this to 
other loyalty programs. So think of airline miles or hotel points or things like 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 17
that. And we often – many of us are members of programs where we’ll earn 
points, but maybe not enough points or miles, whatever the currency is to 
actually make a redemption with that merchant. 
But what you can do with the PayPal wallet is take those points and convert 
them into fiat and shop at any of our 25 plus million merchants around the 
world. And this can be done in an offline setting or point-of-sale just as easily 
as it can be in offline. And so as we think about the utility of the wallet, it’s 
not just the earning of points, but it’s also the utility of spending those going 
forward. 
Craig Maurer: OK. Look, you have so many new initiatives next year, including crypto 
which we – which I thought you did a good job of talking about last night, so 
I’m not going to go into detail there. But what investments get you the most 
excited in terms of what is coming new next year and in the years to follow? 
John Rainey: So it’s hard to pick like your favorite children on this. We’ve got so many 
things that we’re excited about. And I would say one of the reasons for the 
renewed excitement is the ability that we’ve demonstrated over the last 
several months to launch a product quickly. So there have been points in time 
in the past we’ve talked about product, and it’s taking forever to get out. And 
that has simply not been the case this year. We’ve launched more products 
this year than probably over the last several years. So that really contributes 
to that excitement. 
There are a number of things, Craig, and again I hesitate to pick just one. But 
I think something that has been lacking at PayPal and Venmo is the improved 
functionality of the wallet. You could argue that the PayPal wallet is probably 
a little tired and in need of a refresh. And refresh just isn’t the way that it –
that it looks, but it’s also like how convenient is it, what is the amount of 
friction or lack thereof in there, what does it enable you to do. And so we’re 
doing a number of things this year around that that are – that are quite 
exciting, and I think will absolutely help the level of engagement. 
And as we think about engagement, engagement is measured strictly sort of 
on a – on a transaction level today. But one of the things that we’re really 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 18
driving towards is a broader definition of engagement where people are just 
going to the wallet to look at it each day. 
And so if you have crypto today and Coinbase, you may go in there and look 
and say, “Hey, what is the price of whatever cryptocurrency I had? What’s 
my balance?” Things like that gets you to the wallet and actually sort of lure 
you in to being engaged in other ways that actually result in us monetizing 
that in some way. So quite excited about the level of investment here. 
Craig Maurer: OK. With that, it sounds like the bulk of the $300 million in incremental 
investment spend announced earlier in the year is still to come in the fourth 
quarter. Could you perhaps characterize what you’re prioritizing with that 
spend? 
John Rainey: Sure, there are a few things, but they really fall mostly into two buckets. And 
in order, I would say QR code or more broadly contactless payments is the 
first bucket. And the second bucket is what I just described in my previous 
answer, the build-out of the functionality of the wallet. 
Craig Maurer: OK. I know we only have a few minutes left here, so I wanted to quickly just 
get some modeling questions out of the way. So these are – I’ll get through 
this pretty quickly. What’s a good tax rate going forward? We’ve seen the 
tax rate come in well below what has been discussed, so just trying to 
understand the puts and takes there. 
John Rainey: Yes. Well, I think that, in part, determines upon what happens at the end of 
the day today. But just setting that aside for a second, we – because of the geo 
mix of our income, as well as the credit being off a little bit, it’s reasonable to 
assume that taxes could be a little bit less than what our historical 17 percent 
to 18 percent guidance [on non-GAAP effective tax rate] has been. 
Craig Maurer: OK, OK. And could you help us understand the moving parts that drive the 
difference between GAAP and adjusted [non-GAAP] EPS in fourth quarter? 
John Rainey: In the fourth quarter or the third quarter? 
Craig Maurer: No, in the guidance. 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 19
John Rainey: In the guidance. Share-based compensation is probably still the single biggest 
item there. We probably have some amortization of some intangibles. But to 
the extent it’s something other than that, we can – we can follow-up with you 
on that. I don’t have the – all of the information in front of me. 
Craig Maurer: OK. One question came in that, I think, is important just to ask you, which is 
it goes back to the discussion of eBay. So for you and Erica, the commentary
– do you think that by the end of ’21 it sounds like 6 to 7 percent of TPV, do 
you think that could be down to 1 percent or less by the end of ’21? 
John Rainey: I do, I think that that’s the ballpark that we’re talking about. 
Erica, anything to add to that? You have an opinion? 
Erica Gessert: I mean, yes, look, I think it all depends on how quickly eBay launches the 
transition of other markets. So I mean, it’s really more of a question for eBay. 
We’re anticipating with what we’ve seen that the speed so far in Q3 that 
they’re going to be – they’re going to be accelerating quickly in 2021, and so 
that we should be through the majority of it by the end of next year. But it’s –
they’re the ones who are executing on it, right? So ultimately, you have to ask 
them. 
Craig Maurer: OK. And I have a feeling Gabrielle is probably going to tell me I’m almost at 
the end of my time, so I wanted to ask you a wrap-up question. We feel that 
your business is heading into ’21 with the best momentum in its history. So 
how should we use this to inform our view of upcoming ’21 guidance and 
more importantly, new medium – the new medium-term discussion? 
I mean, there’s just been an enormous groundswell of momentum in primarily 
the areas that PayPal makes frankly the most money in. So when we think 
about that 17 percent to 18 percent top line [revenue] guide that’s been 
provided medium-term, it just seems like there’s a lot more momentum than
what was present when you provided that. 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 20
John Rainey: Well, I’ll start with the last point you made. I agree with that. And that, in 
part, gives us the conviction around what an improved longer-term outlook 
would be. 
But I would say this, Craig, we had – the second quarter was, in many ways, 
the best quarter that we’ve ever had. The third quarter was just about as good. 
We had 41 percent growth on [non-GAAP] EPS, an all-time record revenue 
and volume. And as we look out into the future, whether it’s the next few 
quarters or the next few years, there’s just a tremendous secular tailwind right 
now to our business with this movement to the digitization of money. And 
that gives us a lot of conviction around what the future holds for us from a 
financial perspective. 
We’ve also demonstrated the scalability of our platform, the ability to expand 
margins that we’re not so reliant on one merchant that maybe has an outsized 
impact to margins. And I think it’s always challenging like when we take a 
moment like yesterday and we don’t provide 2021 guidance, people 
sometimes conclude, well, gosh in the absence of information that must mean 
something is bad. 
Let me be clear, that’s not the case. That is absolutely not the case. We 
definitely have our arms around the impacts to our business, be it credit, eBay, 
otherwise. But we also believe that it would be borderline irresponsible to 
provide such a wide range that really could be fodder for anybody with some 
opinion about our business. And as we get closer to that point in time, as we 
get to our next call, we’ll provide more granularity on what that is. 
But there’s nothing about next year that is any different than what we’ve 
described all along with respect to the impact from eBay and things like that. 
And just as we’ve got these headwinds to our business, we’ve got some fastmoving tailwinds. 
We, as Erica noted, you take all of the other parts of our business growing at 
30 percent plus. You’ve got merchant services growing to 40 percent plus. 
You’ve got 15.2 million net-new actives come into our platform in the quarter 
and we’re seeing higher level of engagement of these cohorts that are going to 
PAYPAL HOLDINGS, INC.
Moderator: Craig Maurer
11-03-20/3:00 p.m. ET
Page 21
bode well for us next year. So there’s a lot of positive things about our 
business that get us really excited as we look into the future. 
Craig Maurer: OK. With that, I wanted to take a minute and thank you for setting aside this 
time today, and wish you and your team continued health and the best for the 
holiday season that’s coming up. I’m sure you guys are going to be 
remarkably busy during that time. 
John Rainey: Yes. Well definitely, Craig. We appreciate you hosting the call and the 
questions and for everyone participating, and certainly wish everyone the best 
during this holiday period. 
Craig Maurer: OK. Thank you. Take care. 
John Rainey: All right. Bye. 
Erica Gessert: Thanks a lot. Bye. 
END

PayPal Holdings, Inc.
Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call
November 2, 2020
1
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
C O R P O R A T E P A R T I C I P A N T S
John Rainey, Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Customer Operations
Gabrielle Rabinovitch, Vice President, Investor Relations
Akila Moorthy, Senior Director, Investor Relations
C O N F E R E N C E C A L L P A R T I C I P A N T S
Colin Sebastian, Baird
Craig Maurer, Autonomous Research 
Joseph Vafi, Canaccord
Sanjay Sakhrani, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc.
George Mihalos Cowen and Co.
Ashwin Shirvaikar, Citigroup
Bob Napoli, William Blair
Timothy Chiodo, Credit Suisse
Josh Beck, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Jamie Friedman, Susquehanna International Group
Brett Huff, Stephens, Inc.
P R E S E N T A T I O N
Operator
Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for joining PayPal's Quarter Three Analyst Call. 
If you would like to ask a question, press star, one on your telephone keypad. To withdraw a question, 
press the pound key. 
It's now my pleasure to turn the conference over to [PayPal’s] Chief Financial Officer, John Rainey. Mr. 
Rainey, I hand it to you. 
2
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
John Rainey
Thank you, Holly, and thanks, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. We're looking forward to fielding the 
questions that you have. As usual, I'm here with my Investor Relations team. And Holly, I'll just kick it 
back over to for Q&A.
Operator
Thank you. Once again, to ask a question, press star, one. 
And our first question is going to come from the line of Colin Sebastian with Baird.
Colin Sebastian
Great. Good afternoon. How are you doing, John?
John Rainey
Hey, Colin.
Colin Sebastian
So, I just want to come back to the commentary on 2021 since that's seems to where a lot of the 
questions are. I think you've said in the past that you expect to be able to grow margins even through the 
eBay transition. I just wanted to clarify if that view's changed at all given the pace of that migration as well 
as the additional spending initiatives. And then any sort of help factoring in the headwind from credit next 
year? 
John Rainey
Sure. Well, it's still a little early, which is why we didn't provide the guidance, but longer term we've got a 
lot of conviction in the margin profile of our business. Credit is a notable call-out though, because that's a 
very high margin product for us, and we would expect to see depressed levels around credit through next 
year, and so that certainly is a headwind. eBay, we obviously noted, but offsetting some of that is the 
huge tailwinds we see in our business around what's happening with just core PayPal checkout right now. 
And as we covered on the call, there are a number of other new products that we're launching next year, 
which will be accretive to the bottom line.
So, there's a number of puts and takes. Next year was always going to be the more challenging year from 
a growth perspective, but it's probably premature at this point to make any comments around the 
directionality of our margins next year.
Colin Sebastian
Okay, that's helpful. And maybe a quick follow-up. I think it was Dan who called out the October trend. I 
guess there were a day or two that were the highest level of volume that you've seen, I think. Was that a 
result of earlier start to holiday shopping, or any specific event that you can call out there? Thank you.
John Rainey
3
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
Well, that's a great question. And that point is one that we're keenly following. Meaning, how much of the 
shopping season will be pulled forward. But the holidays are always sort of a more challenging time to 
forecast and I think over the last few years you just see more and more come online, which is to our 
benefit, but it's more difficult to forecast. And so, in this period, where people are shopping online already, 
it's reasonable to assume some sales could be pulled forward, though we've not been able to pinpoint 
that in our business. I think, Colin, it stands to reason like you and I certainly don't want to go stand in line 
and be metered in and out of a store in a pandemic sort of metered environment at a Best Buy during the 
holiday season. 
So I would expect there to be just sort of intuitively more online shopping this season, but the curve of 
that or how much of that is pulled forward, it's really hard to tell right now. So we've been closely watching 
and listening to what retailers are saying. And if I can generalize, I would say most retailers right now are 
saying they haven't seen a lot of that and we certainly haven't seen much in our business that we can 
specifically call out.
Colin Sebastian
Okay, thank you.
John Rainey
You bet.
Operator
And our next question will come from the line of Dan Perlin with RBC Capital Markets.
Dan Perlin
Thanks. Hey, good evening. 
John Rainey
Hey, Dan.
Dan Perlin
There's been a ton of questions, obviously, on 2021, so let me just ask it this way. When you look at the 
cohorts, so the 70 million or so net new actives that you're expecting to have by end of year and you look 
at those engagement statistics and try and again to kind of maybe weed out what might be some 
anomalistic behavior from some of those users, are you finding that the velocity of their transactions are 
greater than kind of legacy? And then secondarily, do you think that that pool of net new actives are—are 
these new products really purposely built for those types of consumers?
John Rainey
Yes. So, the short answer is yes, we're seeing more engaged cohorts than previous cohorts. But let me 
give some context to that. In a typical net new active, there's a maturation curve where someone may 
come to us through a first transaction and it may take sometimes several months for that second 
transaction and typically it's over a year before they reach an engagement level that is commensurate 
with our more engaged customers. And one of the things or two of the things that we're seeing right now 
that have been pretty consistent trends over the last six months are the daily active users, which we're up 
4
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
32% in the third quarter, which is much higher than what we've seen previously. And then the 10 day 
adoption rates, which still is a double-digit percentage increase from what they were before. And again, a 
10 day adoption rate, as we define it, is when it's a cohort of customers that uses us four times in a 10 
day period. And so, that level of engagement is up double-digit percentages versus prior cohorts.
So two good leading indicators about the engagement level of these customers. Offsetting that, and in a 
year where you've got 70 million-ish net new actives, you've obviously got to be very concerned about the 
churn dynamics of those in the following years. So, that's one of the things that our analytic team is doing 
a lot of work to really try to help influence their behavior and keep them engaged with not only offers but 
new product opportunities and things like that. And again, as we add additional functionality to the wallet 
and you see things like the network effect among users, I think that all bodes well for us, but those are 
some of the competing dynamics as we think about the next year there.
Dan Perlin
Okay. And just a brief follow-up, and it was somewhat addressed in the call, but you have—you obviously 
have a huge product set that's getting rolled out next year. It sounds like from what Dan said at the end of 
the call there that the trajectory of expenses are probably going to fall heavier in the first half of the year 
relative to the second half given most of that's going to be completed. I'm just trying to make sure I 
understand kind of the cadence a little bit of this expense. Fourth quarter was heavier than what we had 
anticipated, and so I just want to make sure as we calibrate our models we're not just going to be way off 
base. Thank you.
John Rainey
Yes. I'm glad you asked the question because I don't think that's exactly what he implied on the call. As I 
am—we're in the throes of a budget process right now and the last thing that happens in the budget 
process is the quarterization of all those expenses and revenue efforts. So it's a little early, but I don't 
think there's anything that I would call out necessarily that is going to create a different expense trajectory 
for one quarter or the next, with the exception that we're going to see a little bit of a tail of this $300 million 
that we earmarked bleed into the first half of the year. 
So, maybe the first quarter's affected a little bit more and then we'll just have to gauge what that level of 
investment is going forward depending upon the benefit that we're pulling through related to these efforts. 
We're pretty rigorous and disciplined in the way that we approach this and it's not just, you know, us 
throwing buckets of money at initiatives. So we've got a constant feedback loop on the effectiveness or 
the efficacy of that spend, and so that could help influence how things go through the year as well.
Dan Perlin
Okay. Thank you very much.
John Rainey
Mm-hmm.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from the line of Craig Maurer of Autonomous Research 
Craig Maurer
5
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
Yes. Hi. Thanks for taking the question. John, I hope you're well. 
John Rainey
(Multiple speakers) you're well as well.
Craig Maurer
Yes, getting by. Wanted to ask about how we should think about OVAS next year, what are the puts and 
takes? And secondarily, how aggressively did Paymentus volume come on in the third quarter? Thanks.
John Rainey
Sure. Well, Craig, you surprised me. I thought surely, given your quote in the Wall Street Journal this 
morning, that you'd be asking some questions about the sustainability of P2P trends or something. But 
no, it was a good article. With OVAS, we'll see a benefit again from Honey next year as that continues to 
grow, and really pleased with the progress of that product and the capabilities that we can offer there. 
Credit is going to be a drag still. And honestly, like I would say, if there's something that someone's 
missing about our financial modeling, it's probably that, that you probably know as well as anyone, Craig, 
sort of the dynamics of that. So that's going to continue to be something that is a headwind for the year.
I guess, adding to that, if we say in a lower interest rate environment, then we're going to see the interest 
income on customer balances be more akin to the level that we saw in the third quarter this year. So that 
could also be a drag. I'm looking at Gabrielle and Akila. Anything that I'm missing there on that?
Gabrielle Rabinovitch
Yes. The contra revenue adjustment to OVAS that we had in Q1 and Q2 as a result of CECL and the 
changed macro outlook will not be recurring most likely if we're more in steady state. So that's a little bit of 
an offset to some of that credit impact.
John Rainey
That's a really good point, and we're at a reserve ratio, coverage ratio right now that is 24%, and if we 
were to see the economy rebound, testing and vaccines be readily available potentially, that sort of 
relaxes some of the pressure around credit. So you could even see some of that reserve reverse over the 
next year, potentially, so that's something to consider as well.
With respect to payment, as to the second part of your question, we're 100% ramped on that now. In 
terms of through the quarter—and I guess what you're getting to is did we really have a run rate effect in 
the quarter. Close to it. Probably 80% is the way that I'd say that without having the math in front of me. 
So pretty close to it. 
Craig Maurer
Okay. And if you could dimensionalize how much that dragged on take rate would just be helpful because 
I think that was a hard thing for us to model.
John Rainey
On bill pay, Paymentus?
6
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
Craig Maurer
Yes, bill pay.
John Rainey
So, let's take the 24 basis point decline in total take rate. I would say that's probably kind of four equal 
parts of P2P, hedge, credit, and then mix in our business which includes Paymentus.
Craig Maurer
Okay. Thank you. I'll let you move on. Thanks. 
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will comes from the line of Joseph Vafi with Canaccord.
Joseph Vafi
Hi, good afternoon, John. Thanks for taking the call. 
John Rainey
Hey Joe.
Joseph Vafi
Just a couple of questions. Yes. Hey. Just looking out beyond maybe this year and early next year and 
into the future there's a couple of things that I think are probably pretty interesting for your model. Number 
one is kind of personal banking initiatives and you alluded to it on the call with more direct deposit and 
other things and kind of expanding the customer usage cases just kind of beyond e-commerce. And then 
secondly, just maybe a little more drill-down on what potentially transaction margins could look like on 
crypto-based transactions if you can do those away from the VISA and MasterCard card networks. 
Thanks a lot.
John Rainey
Sure. So, with respect to personal banking, we very much want to partner with others in the ecosystem 
here and take our complementary capabilities with issuers and really try to go after the addressable 
market that way. So, we are in no way looking to replace one's checking account or personal bank with 
PayPal or Venmo. We think that we can provide capabilities that are very much complementary to that. 
That said, there are many capabilities that are complementary to that. And we've talked about 
subscription services and bill pay, but crypto is actually another one, right. 
And it gets to the second part of your question, where I'm glad you asked because the accounting—well, 
first of all, on crypto, we're basically providing that as a free service. We monetize that only on any spread 
between what it costs us to acquire the currency versus what the consumer purchases and if there 
happens to be a transaction involved there. So, when someone uses that to shop at a merchant there's 
no additional fee related to that, to the consumer or the merchant. And the accounting on that is such that 
it won't be recognized in our TPV—but for buy, sell, hold, I'm just getting corrected here, yes, at a 
merchant—when shopped it will, but the buy, sell, hold of the acquisition of the crypto itself is not included 
in our TPV. We will account for that on a net basis - meaning that we won't gross it up for what the 
7
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
consumer is purchasing it for. So, we'll only have the transaction fee for any spread related to the buy and 
the sell of that hitting our books.
So at this point it's probably a relatively small financial impact to us. I think the play here though really 
goes to the first part of your question, which is, just having more utility in the wallet and as this is maybe 
some type of currency that we see more of in the future, we want to be at the forefront of this and make 
sure that both our consumers and our merchants have access to this.
Akila Moorthy
So on the purchase with a merchant where crypto is being used in that use case, Joe, we will essentially 
have a take rate with the merchant. Again, not an incremental take rate, but the take rate that the 
merchant is charged typically and that's how it will flow through our books in that use case. 
Gabrielle Rabinovitch
The cost of funds will essentially be very similar to sort of stored balance. The difference being that we 
will be paying a fee back to Paxos on essentially the currency conversion from the crypto back to fiat 
currency. But overall, from a transaction margin standpoint, the unit economics are good because 
essentially it's sort of stored balance funds with a slight fee attached for the conversion. 
Joseph Vafi
Great. So it sounds like you would welcome the more crypto-based transaction volume for purchases 
relative to where your transaction margins are today.
Gabrielle Rabinovitch
Well, look, I mean, the way we think about is today crypto is really sort of an asset for diversification and 
people are not using it in a transactional way necessarily. That said, we think it's important to remove 
some of the boundaries there and the friction around people's concerns around volatility. So what we've 
done is create an experience for merchants and consumers that eliminate some of the risks around 
settlement or volatility and makes it potentially be used in a more ubiquitous way as a transactional 
currency, but I still think there's going to have to be consumer adoption around that given the way people
use crypto today relative to what this experience contemplates. 
Joseph Vafi
That's great. Thanks everyone for the answers. Much appreciated.
John Rainey
You bet.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will comes from the line of Sanjay Sakhrani with KBW.
Sanjay Sakhrani
Thanks. Had a quick follow-up question on the eBay headwind, and then one on the credit costs. As far 
as the eBay headwind, just want to follow-up on the question asked on the call. That 3.5 percentage point 
8
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
headwind, does that continue through the third quarter and then abate or can that accelerate or remain 
the same for sometime?
John Rainey
Well, Sanjay, the 3.5 point headwind is related to the fourth quarter. 
Sanjay Sakhrani
Mm-hmm. Would it continue into next year or?
John Rainey
Yes. Yes, and a lot of that depends upon the rate of adoption throughout the year. But eBay has noted, I 
think, that they've migrated 344,000 merchants already. I think it's fair to assume that eBay's focus is 
going to be on merchants with greater volume versus lesser volume initially. So, it's not probably correct 
to just assume that if you take their entire merchant base that that percentage is the same as the volume. 
The volume is probably more outsized than that. 
But yes, that'll be a headwind throughout next year.
Sanjay Sakhrani
I guess what I'm thinking about the rest of the pool of volume that's left, how much of it do you expect to 
retain, if any?
John Rainey
So, eBay can—they can move everyone if they want through their managed payments experience, if 
that's what they like to do, even forcing it upon people that don't want it. We're not in control of that. What 
we're focused on is our share of checkout in that managed payments experience. And as I noted on the 
call, it's north of 50%. Actually, 59%, 60% in the entities that they've already migrated. So, that's actually 
in excess of what our initial expectations were. So, this is, I would say, tracking more or less on par with 
what we talked about in January of 2018 when we talked about this. 
And so, it certainly presents a headwind to next year but nothing that we think is so significant that we 
can't get through it.
Sanjay Sakhrani
Okay. And just to clarify the OVAS or just sort of the credit cost impacts. I know Gabrielle you mentioned 
the CECL impact and such. When you're talking about the pressure that's not being contemplated and the 
outpaced impact of credit, do you mean just assuming the macro outlook remains the same? So on the 
new growth you have to apply high reserve factors against them, or something else? I'm just trying to 
make sure I understand how to think about that line and the growth of that line in 2021.
John Rainey
Yes. So, credit, seriously, has been a cash inflow for us this year because of the contraction in the book. 
And so, typically, within OVAS, it's one of the areas that grows in the past sometimes faster than the rest 
of the business, and if we assume the macro outlook remains pretty constant to what it is today, there's 
9
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
going to be continual management of that book and so we're not going to see growth in credit like we 
have in the past. So, that's going to put a headwind to both revenue growth as well as margin.
Sanjay Sakhrani
Okay. Got it. So you're assuming you're going to shrink and that's why it's going to be a headwind for 
revenues.
John Rainey
Well, shrink to not grow and specifically not grow at a rate commensurate with the rest of our business.
Sanjay Sakhrani
Got it. All right. thank you.
John Rainey
Yes.
Operator
And our next question will comes from the line of George Mihalos with Cowen.
George Mihalos
Hey guys. Thanks for taking my question and thanks again for doing this. 
John Rainey
Hey, George. 
George Mihalos
Wanted to start off, based on the commentary from Dan on the trends that you see more recently with 
TPV, John, is is safe to say as you look through the month of October and your performance there that 
TPV growth was sort of tracking at the higher end of your fourth quarter guide and you're sort of in the 
mid 30s as opposed to the low 30s?
John Rainey
I would say it's pretty much on track with our guide. We've been very encouraged by some of the days 
that we've seen that, as we noted, were at all-time high levels. But overall I would say it's consistent with 
our guide.
George Mihalos
Okay. And just a quick follow-up. I know it's been asked a couple of different ways, but maybe just to sort
of ask it a bit bluntly. The transaction margin, and obviously, the improvements that you've seen there
over the last two quarters, should we be thinking that this rate of overall transaction margin is sustainable 
as we look into '21? And I know you talked about some of these puts going against you but you also have 
a lot of these new products that seem to be accretive to the margin.
10
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
John Rainey
Transaction margin will largely track with what's happening with the overall trends in our business. So, as 
we've seen more volume come from the branded checkout experience that carries a lower transaction 
expense and those tend to be higher margin. If you look at some of the areas, like the travel and event 
verticals where maybe we do more of the unbranded processing, they've obviously put a significant 
headwind into our revenue growth, but they also come at a lower margin.
So, to the extent that that persists, then yes I would expect transaction margin to continue to be at this 
level. To the extent that we see travel and events rebound, that's going to put a little bit of pressure there. 
But the question I think everyone has is, okay, well, if the core branded experiences still remain at an 
elevated level going forward, well, then that's going to bode well for us on transaction margin. And then to 
your point, when we add things like Venmo monetization going forward, that's going to be—that's 
something that is bringing that down right now, which will start being accretive to that.
So a number of dynamics influencing that. And maybe I didn't specifically answer your question, but tried 
to provide some color on the puts and takes there.
George Mihalos
Great. Thank you.
John Rainey
You bet, George.
Operator
Thank you. And our next question will comes from the line of Ashwin Shirvaikar with Citi.
John Rainey
Hey, Ashwin.
Ashwin Shirvaikar
Hey, John. How are you?
John Rainey
Good. I hope you're doing well.
Ashwin Shirvaikar
Yes, thanks. So, my first question was on BNPL. Do you expect maybe a higher rate of losses that should 
settle out later as you figure out the type of user that has a tendency to use BNPL? And then, eventually 
will you take this off of the balance sheet?
John Rainey
11
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
Two very good questions. First, we don't expect a high rate of losses, and that's typically what one would 
assume when you launch a new credit product. For example, when we launched the international 
consumer product, we saw a higher rate of losses there initially, but fortunately, because of some of our 
risk capabilities we're not seeing that in BNPL, nor do we expect to. So, very pleased about that. 
And just to add a finer point around the monetization of that. That's very much a product targeted for 
share of checkout, because as Dan noted, there's no incremental fee on the merchants related to that 
product, which is the normal take rate, while others are charging for that. But, clearly, this is an area of 
credit where a lot of people are participating and we believe we've got a better value proposition there. 
And then when you get to the fact that it's effectively free, we think that we'll see the benefits there 
through a higher share of checkout.
With respect to the second part of your question, which was...
Akila Moorthy
Externalization
John Rainey
Oh yes, yes. So, right now, we don't have any plans to externalize that. One of the interesting things 
about this, Ashwin, is that because of the duration of the receivables it's actually much less capital 
intensive for the amount of revenue that it brings in, in contrast to some of our other consumer-oriented 
products. And so, we don't have anything in the works right now to put that off balance sheet. But that 
said, our mantra around this remains the same. We will continue to be very thoughtful around how we use 
credit in our business, where it's not too capital intensive or it doesn't become such a large part of our 
portfolio of products that it introduces volatility to our earnings that is not desirable.
Ashwin Shirvaikar
Got it. And then the other question was, in terms of just thinking of eBay and the 3.5 points of headwind, 
could you kind of bring that down to sort of what the margin impact is and considering eBay's push in 
these faster rate of merchant attrition, if you will? Does your tactical objective here change in terms of 
how you service eBay?
John Rainey
No, I wouldn't say so. eBay tends to be a higher margin part of our business historically, as they've 
enjoyed in the range of a 4% average take rate, and so there's an outsized earnings impact related to that 
decline in revenue. We saw some of that in the most recent quarter and look, we're still expanding 
margins. So, the impact will be [relatively] contained to 2021 and hopefully when all is said and done it's 
not aiming at something that I think is really relevant to our overall financial performance. I guess said 
differently, Ashwin, we believe that we can manage the margin impact of that just fine with what's 
happening with the rest of our business. 
So, it's really going to be the impact on revenue growth that is the only thing that's really, I think, 
significant to call out.
Ashwin Shirvaikar
Got it. Okay, thanks.
12
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
John Rainey
Yes.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will come from the line of Bob Napoli with William Blair. 
Bob Napoli
Hi. Thank you. Good afternoon. 
John Rainey
Hey Bob.
Bob Napoli
John, I guess, probably an impossible question to answer, but that e-commerce has gained massive 
market share this year relative to historical trends and as you think about next year and you're looking to 
next year, as you start lapping the massive, do you think—what are your thoughts, do you think that ecommerce market share gives up some of the gains before it starts growing again? Or what are the 
thoughts on the trajectory of e-commerce, say, a year from today we have a vaccine and the world starts 
to get back to normal?
John Rainey
You're right, Bob, that's an impossible question to answer. I'll share my thoughts with you on this. I think 
we've seen a permanent step-up in e-commerce. I notice it from my own personal behavior in my 
household and it's validated by the numerous studies that we do on consumers weekly saying that—and 
we've all seen figures that 50% of people suggest they're going to continue to shop online. You've got the 
CEO of Kroger saying that their customers are telling them that they'll continue to shop, buy groceries 
online. And just one vertical after the next. Will things come down from the peak when the entire world 
was locked down in a shelter in place? Certainly, because people will have mobility and they've got the 
latitude to buy in whatever channel that they want. 
So I'm not suggesting that we're going to see the peak levels sustainable, but I absolutely believe that 
we've seen a step-up change in e-commerce penetration relative to what we saw prior to the pandemic. 
And again, we actually want to put some gasoline on the fire here. This is why we're investing. This is why 
we're doing QR code, why we want to give contactless options for our customers, because we think that 
we could help shape some of these trends because it's—and I've joked about it earlier in the call, but the 
quote that Craig Maurer had in the Journal today was basically essentially saying he sees no reason why 
once someone uses a digital product to pay somebody else why they'd never go back to cash. And I 
agree with that. And actually history would tell us that that's largely true. So, I do think that we're seeing 
sustainable trends here.
Bob Napoli
Thanks. And then just a follow-up. I mean, there's been huge growth in money transfer, digital money 
transfer. I wondered how Xoom was doing. And then, how do we track your physical retail progress? 
What are the thoughts and what you might give us to be able to track the progress on physical retail?
13
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
John Rainey
Sure. Well, Xoom is doing exceptionally well, and I think that that would stand to reason given the 
environment that we're in. We don't call out the volume metrics related to that. Look, it's still a pretty small 
part of our overall volume in our business. 
In terms of tracking the retail metrics, we're early on here, and we will provide some indications around 
how we're doing, the success of that. But this is not something that we're going to be able to measure 
success in the next quarter or two or three, for that matter. This is going to be a long slog. If it were easy, 
it would have already been done, and we just think that this is an opportune moment in history where 
there is a real demand among both merchants and consumers to have contactless options. But when 
appropriate and when material, we will provide some indication of how we're doing.
Bob Napoli
Thank you.
John Rainey
You bet.
Operator
And our next question will comes from the line of Timothy Chiodo with Credit Suisse.
Timothy Chiodo
Thank you. Okay. I want to ask about—you made the comment on the call that at the February investor 
day you'll be raising the medium term guide. So a clarifier there. What would be the base year that the 
guide would be based off of?
John Rainey
Well, it'll...
Timothy Chiodo
Would it be 2020 or 2021, I guess, is the question.
John Rainey
You know, I haven't really thought about that, but we'll make it very clear what it is when we do that. I 
presume it'll be 2020. But I think our comments, Tim, really is just our bullishness around the business 
and it kind of speaks to the answer I just provided to Bob. We do believe that there's some sustainable 
tailwinds given what's happening now. We'll also be lapping eBay—or not lapping, but sort of not as 
reliant on eBay's volume going forward, which will have a higher growth rate for us. 
So, very excited about what the future holds and I think there are strong indications that the business will 
be performing at a higher growth rate level than what it was in our previous meeting in terms of guidance.
Timothy Chiodo
14
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
Okay, great. Thank you. Yes, and you kind of hit at what I was getting at. When I was saying if it was off 
the 2020 base and it would be higher and incorporating the headwinds in 2021, which is very different 
than starting in 2021 with kind of those headwinds behind you. So—okay, thank you.
John Rainey
But, Tim, to be clear, I don't want to be overly precise here or prescriptive on this. We're really speaking to 
the overall trends in our business over a multiyear period and we're really excited about what that bodes.
Timothy Chiodo
Okay. All right. Point taken. I follow you. On the eBay headwinds, this is a little bit of a minor one, but 
when we think about the headwind in Q4, how much of that can we think about as the volume that's gone 
- and I apologize if you hit on this earlier - versus the repricing of some of the remaining volume, so the 
retained checkout but perhaps under the new agreement?
John Rainey
It's both. It's both the repricing on the branded piece as well as the mix in terms of those moving to their 
integrated payments experience.
Timothy Chiodo
Okay.
John Rainey
So not enough to call out one being outsized more than the other necessarily. 
Timothy Chiodo
Okay. All right. Very helpful. Thanks a lot for taking my question.
John Rainey
You bet.
Operator
Our next question will comes from the line of Josh Beck with KeyBanc.
Josh Beck
Thanks, John, and team for this. Appreciate it as always. 
John Rainey
Hey, Josh.
Josh Beck
15
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
Hey, John. So, the BNPL came up and there seems to be a lot of optimism around, obviously not this 
quarter, but where that can go over the next couple of years. So would like to hear what's behind that? 
And then strategically, obviously, some of those companies charge a premium for that take rate. It seems 
like you're going with more of the standard pricing. So do you see this bringing in volume maybe from 
someone else's credit card? Just would like to hear how you think about the business case.
John Rainey
Sure. So let me give you a little bit of a lay of this landscape competitively. We get asked a lot of 
questions about other payment marks and whether we—how we compete on share of checkout with 
those payment marks, and consistently we've said and we still see that we compete very well with them. 
We don't see any appreciable shift in share of checkout when a new payment mark, and whatever name 
you want to give it, is inserted. 
Where we have seen some changes in cases is when these buy now, pay later options are offered, we
see our share of checkout be affected. And so that really informs our strategy on this to where we want to 
provide that same offering so we don't jeopardize any of that share of checkout, or, moreover, given the 
strong consumer demand among certain demographics for this payment option, we actually see more 
payment, more share of checkout, more payment volume. And so, we believe the best strategy is to go in 
and offer basically a free offering for this, where the only monetization is just the take rate model that we 
have with that merchant that was in place beforehand in probably most cases and there's no incremental 
fee that all the others are charging to have this additional product. 
And so, early indications have been really—everything's been really well received around that and I think 
your comments around this I think are very much consistent with our thoughts. This is something we're 
pretty excited about. This is not just the next product that any company has thrown out there. This has the 
potential to be pretty meaningful for us.
Gabrielle Rabinovitch
Yes. Just I think the other piece too is that we're really bringing a very innovative solution to a long tail of 
merchants that wouldn't be on the road map for a lot of these other sort of single product buy now pay 
later programs because there's a sales process involved. And so, essentially very seamlessly we're 
bringing this solution to our long tail of merchants and providing the ability to compete for the same sales 
on the same basis with those consumers.
Josh Beck
Okay. That's all really helpful context. Thank you both. And then just quickly a follow-up on Tim's last 
question there around how much of it is repricing versus volume. So, as we think about next year and as 
we think about the path, should we assume that the biggest variable is really going to be the volume and 
kind of the merchant piece that, John, you talked about earlier, or as we go through the year maybe does 
one of those factors take over? Just any context you can share on just the path and the trajectory there.
John Rainey
I appreciate the question, Josh, though we have not called those out in terms of the materiality of each of 
those, and so I can't do it here. They both have an impact and both will be noted in whatever we say the 
impact will be next year, but we haven't called them out separately. 
Josh Beck
16
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
Okay. Okay, makes sense. Thank you both again.
John Rainey
You bet.
Operator
Thank you. Our next question will comes from the line of Jamie Friedman with Susquehanna.
Jamie Friedman
Hi. Thanks guys for doing this call. 
John Rainey
Hello, Jamie.
Jamie Friedman
Hi. A couple of questions. So, clearly, great job with the transaction expense at 82 basis points. Record 
low. I was wondering though, did you see a similar mix shift to debit [cards] that the networks were calling 
out, which was up debit, down some on credit, and is that relevant to the transaction expense
improvement?
John Rainey
So, without being specific in terms of the materiality, we did see a shift to debit. So that certainly has an 
impact on our numbers as well. And we called that out in the second quarter as well that it was perhaps 
maybe a little more intuitive in the second quarter as there were a lot of stimulus checks being delivered 
at that point in time going directly to people's bank accounts. But we have seen a persistent higher level 
of debit relative to what we've seen historically. And perhaps, some of that is also just consumer behavior.
Jamie Friedman
Got it. Thank you. And then John, also in your prepared remarks in the previous call or maybe in one of 
your answers you had referred to credit as a headwind next year. I just want to make sure I understood, is 
that apropos of your prior answer, meaning, as a funding mix or are you talking about credit as it impacts 
OVAS?
John Rainey
As it impacts OVAS. And by extension, our overall revenue growth and earnings.
Jamie Friedman
Yes.
John Rainey
And look, I don't want to emphasize that too much. Credit's still a pretty small part of our business, but I'm 
simply trying to provide a couple of the things that are moving year-on-year or are the performance is 
17
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
different than what we've seen historically. And people have noted that eBay, I think we called that out for 
sometime is going to have an impact, but credit, our expectation right now, given the macro environment, 
is that will continue to be a drag on our revenue growth and earnings.
Jamie Friedman
Got it. Thank you for the perspective. 
John Rainey
You bet.
Operator
Thank you. And our last question for the day will comes from the line of Brett Huff with Stephens, 
Incorporated.
Brett Huff
Good evening, John, Gabrielle, and Akila. I hope you're all doing well.
John Rainey
Same to you, Brett.
Brett Huff
Two quick questions, all about bigger picture because a lot of the detail was already covered tonight, so 
thanks for all that. Number one is, Venmo card, heavy focus on QR codes. Understand the Chinese and 
Asian success with QR code and ubiquity there. Could you talk about that versus tap-to-pay and 
contactless, etc., and kind of how you're choosing one or the other or straddling? And then the follow-up 
is, anything on pricing on just the plain vanilla stuff you guys are offering, or is e-com so in demand that 
you're able to raise pricing, hold pricing better, just any change with that? And thanks in advance. 
John Rainey
You bet. So, first on QR code, Brett, our goal is to allow our customers to pay in whatever form they want. 
And so we don't want to be overly prescriptive on forcing them into a QR code experience. It just so 
happens though that I think that is the quickest and easiest to launch and we've seen that success in 
China, as you called out, and perhaps the interoperability aspects of that are much greater than some of 
the others. And so, that's where our focus has been initially, but longer term you should really hear us talk 
more about contactless payments versus QR code, because we want to provide whatever capability it is 
for our customers in terms of their preference.
In terms of pricing, I'll start with kind of the same-store sales pricing is basically still constant, flat. We've 
not seen any change there. The changes in our take rate are really related to the four items that I called 
out earlier on this call. But we do continue to get more sophisticated with how we price, and as we look at 
the various products that we provide out there, there are a number of different ways to price around that. 
So, every year we've earmarked certain benefits in our annual plan related to pricing changes. And 
pricing also goes both ways. We also look at, as I mentioned earlier, with the buy now pay later. I mean, 
this is one where we're electing to give something away for free because we think there's a greater 
18
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription. There may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
PayPal Holdings, Inc. – Third Quarter 2020 Analyst Call, November 2, 2020
opportunity in share of wallet. And so, that certainly cuts both ways, but there are a number of pricing 
changes that we've got, both implementing right now, as well as in our plans for next year.
So, thank you for the question, Brett. And Holly, I see that we are right at the end of our time. So, I want 
to thank everyone for their question or questions, and I'm sure that we'll be following up with many of you 
over the coming days.
So until then, I hope everyone remains healthy and stays well. Take care.
Operator
Once again, we'd like to thank you for participating in PayPal's Quarter Three Analyst call. You may now 
disconnect.