Page | 1 
Company: BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES-MERRILL LYNCH 
Conference Title: PayPal 4Q18 Post-Earnings Call 
Conference ID: 8475360 
Moderator: Integration User 
Date: January 31, 2019 
Operator: This call is not for media representatives or Banc of America Merrill Lynch investment bankers 
or commercial bankers including corporate and commercial FX. All such individuals are instructed 
to disconnect now. 
 Good day and welcome to the PayPal 4th Quarter 2018 Post Earnings conference call. Today’s 
call is being recorded. And I would now like to turn the call over to Jason Kupferberg. Please go 
ahead. 
Jason Kupferberg: Thank you and good afternoon everybody; appreciate you joining us. I'm Jason 
Kupferberg, the Payments Analyst at Banc of America/Merrill Lynch. We’re very pleased to be 
hosting the quarterly Post Earnings Call-Back today with PayPal. We have John Rainey, CFO, on 
the line as well as the PayPal IR team. So, thank you guys for the opportunity. 
John Rainey: Thanks Jason; appreciate it and looking forward to. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay great. Well, you know - a few moving parts here this quarter and we did have a 
whole bunch of questions logged into us - so I'm going to kind of go through these - and hopefully 
get through as much content as possible. Maybe just to start - if you can provide a little bit of 
clarification. Within the Q4 numbers there was obviously some non-operating gains in there, and 
you had previewed that a bit on the Q3 call - it ended up translating into some higher nontransaction related expense in the quarter than maybe some people had remembered would be 
coming. So, if you can just clarify exactly what the gains were - how you chose to spend them - 
Page | 2 
and then, you know, whether or not there is anything we need to think about going forward with 
respect to either, you know, elevated non-transaction related expenses or non-operating gains. 
John Rainey: Sure Jason. First, I would just say the fourth quarter really capped what we thought was a 
good year for us. We saw 21% revenue growth when you adjust for asset light. We grew earnings 
per share by 26%. We had a record quarter for net new actives and capped off a record year where 
we had almost 40 million net new actives come to our platform in the year. And then of course very 
importantly, we completed the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio for $6.5 billion 
dollars in cash proceeds and put a similar amount of capital to work either through share buyback 
or acquisitions. 
 But to your point, we did indicate that we were going to have a larger than normal benefit in other 
operating income in the fourth quarter and just for context, the accounting rules have changed this 
year such that when minority investments -- previously held under the cost method -- have some 
type of valuation round, we have to mark those to market. And it was such for us that we had $55 
million dollars of gains in the fourth quarter. And we knew about some of that going into the quarter. 
And rather than let that fall entirely to the bottom line we gave an indication on our third quarter call 
that we wanted to spend into that and make some sound investments for our business. And you 
see some of that in the net new active number in fact. 
 But, you know, had it not been for that more – or said differently - had those market-to-market gains 
not occurred, we certainly would have curtailed our spending more in the quarter, but we felt the 
right thing for the long-term growth of the company was to spend into it. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. So really, it’s kind of a one-off situation. 
John Rainey: Correct. 
Page | 3 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. So, let’s pick up on that point around the net new adds. I mean, organically you 
were at 10.9 million in Q4 which was a huge number relative to what the recent run rate has looked 
like. And you talked about core PayPal still being a main driver in there – and obviously Venmo is 
contributing also – but it would be great if you could help us drill into the geographic mix a bit. You 
know, which countries are really driving the bulk of the growth. I know you talked about India, for 
example, as, you know, an exciting long-term opportunity where you’re getting some traction – so, 
you know, a little more context on the actual source of the venue would be great. 
John Rainey: Sure. Well, I think to start with is just a general with two exceptions I’ll talk about. The 
composition of our net new actives pretty much represents where our footprint is. And so, we don’t 
see outsized growth in one region versus the other with two exceptions. One is obviously Venmo 
which is just U.S. And while the majority of our net new actives came just through PayPal core, 
Venmo is in second there in terms of the contribution. 
 The second area that I point to which is different from what we’ve seen in prior years is the benefit 
from India as we’ve launched organic efforts in India that had larger than normal contribution to our 
net new actives in the quarter and we are pleased about how that’s coming along. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. So, if you look at the net new actives that came on in 2018 and think about just 
the expected lifetime value of them versus the cohort that would have come on, you know, in 2017 
or 2016 for that matter - is there any difference in that? In other words, if you’re adding 
disproportionate amount of users, let’s say in India - you know, are you thinking about the lifetime 
value of those users any differently than say in, you know, in a new U.S. user? 
John Rainey: Sure. So, we spend a tremendous amount of time and effort really looking at the lifetime 
value - and even the cost of acquisitions of each of our cohorts. So, this is an area that we have a 
lot of rigor in. And what we see - and again, there’s an exception to this which I’ll point out - but 
the new cohorts that are coming on have a higher lifetime value and that’s really driven by the fact 
Page | 4 
that they tend to be more engaged. And I think in part because of maybe the network effect of our 
business - we’re just more relevant in more places and there’s more opportunities to use us - and 
so we see a higher lifetime value. 
 The exception to that would be India. India tends to be at the lower end of the spectrum. And 
perhaps that changes over time, but again I think it’s - we have less of a presence in India. It’s 
more of a nascent development for us. And so, over time as we have more merchants on board 
there, we get - you know, more market penetration and we would expect that to change - but right 
now India has a lower CLV (customer lifetime value) than the rest of our business. 
Jason Kupferberg: Understood. Let’s maybe switch gears over to Venmo. That was again a highlight in 
Q4. You did give us a new disclosure that Venmo exited 2018 with an annualized revenue run rate 
over $200 million. Where should we think about the range of that being exiting 2019 just given 
traction you’re getting with, you know, each of the legs of the monetization stool? 
John Rainey: Well, we’re not going to provide a number for the exit for 2019 but, you know, we continue 
to see tremendous growth there. In fact, we’ve seen an acceleration in growth in certain parts- to 
some of the monetization activities. But, you know, we’ve been asked to provide more disclosures 
around Venmo. And, you know, I don’t want to segment report the various parts of our business, 
but we thought that this was a good addition in the quarter to give some color to how Venmo is 
progressing. And I think very importantly, when we look at the composition of how we’re monetizing 
Venmo - certainly early on, the majority of this was through what we refer to as OCT, which is the 
payment for instant withdrawal. And we talked back in our last call that we saw a billion dollars in 
volume just in September alone. And that’s continuing to perform very well. 
 What’s changed is that we’re seeing rapid growth in the other two areas of monetization which is 
actually paying with Venmo at merchants -- and also the card use. And so, very pleased with that. 
And they represent half of what that $200 million is today. 
Page | 5 
Jason Kupferberg: Between those two, can you tell us which one is larger right now -- the pay with Venmo 
versus the card? 
John Rainey: Sure. They’re split pretty equally. The card is a little bit higher than pay with Venmo at this 
point. But again, I would expect if you were to think about all three of those in order - OCT being 
the largest - the card being the next largest - and then Pay with Venmo being third - ultimately that 
would be completely flipped… 
Jason Kupferberg: Yes. 
John Rainey: …where the majority of the monetization would come to Pay with Venmo. 
Jason Kupferberg: Right. And then if we think about just the relative transaction margin that each of those 
three carry, I guess we would think pay with Venmo may be especially high. Is that a valid 
assumption? 
John Rainey: Well, pay with Venmo is effectively going to be the same take-rate - as what we have with 
PayPal. So, we don’t have a separate agreement with each of the merchants for PayPal and 
Venmo. It’s under one… 
Jason Kupferberg: Right. 
John Rainey: …blanket. Although the transaction costs seem to be lower with Venmo. But if we’re just 
looking at transaction margin of all of those - OCT is the highest and should remain that way. The 
instant… 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. 
Page | 6 
John Rainey: … withdrawal. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. Interesting. So, I know that on the call you indicated that Venmo is not yet 
breakeven, but I think you had said that the goal is within sight - if I have the words right. I mean, 
is this a realistic scenario in 2020? 
John Rainey: You know, we have a lot of opportunities to try to get that to break even or even, you know, 
further put our foot down the accelerator with profitability. But our priority right now to be very clear 
is growth. And, I feel like we have a little bit of a luxury to make sure that given the financial 
architecture that we have - and the fact that our core business is performing so well - we can make 
the right investments to maximize this opportunity in the long term. And so - I don’t want to be 
specific about any quarter or year in terms of when we expect this to happen - line of sight, though, 
has been certainly the medium term outlook that we talk about - but again, I think that the best thing 
for PayPal long term is to make sure that we get the growth that we aspire to in this area. 
 And again, as long as we’re growing the margins in our business and making these sound 
investments for the long term, I think we have the luxury to do that. 
Jason Kupferberg: Fair enough. Let’s switch gears over to the outlook for 2019. It did seem like the tone 
on the overall global macro backdrop down to some extent this quarter - is that because of 
incremental weakness that you’re actually observing in parts of your business, or is it more of a 
cautionary note that you are braced for some potential slowing in certain areas? Kind of putting 
eBay aside - we’ll come to that separately. 
John Rainey: It’s probably some of both. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. 
Page | 7 
John Rainey: It’s hard I think for any company today to, you know, turn on CNBC or pick up the Wall Street 
Journal and, you know, not be a little cautious about what they see out there. The - whether it’s, 
you know, the UK and Brexit or China. And so, I think - my sense is companies are, you know, 
being a little cautious perhaps as a general rule. But we also do it to be clear - we see some impact 
in our business. We saw it in the fourth quarter. We see it right now. Growth is not as strong in 
certain regions as it was a year ago. So, certainly that influences it as well. 
Jason Kupferberg: Can you go into that a little bit deeper and maybe talk about, you know, maybe this is 
where we segue a little bit into cross border - but just kind of digging into, you know, where some 
of the slowdown has made itself evident. 
John Rainey: Sure. Well, in no particular order - China is one where we see that, you know, there’s less 
growth and I think there are trade tensions. And, you know, I was in China fairly recently - and 
certainly there is maybe a level of concern there that we haven’t seen in some period of time. 
They’ve been in such hyper growth mode for so long. And so, with that level of concern, I think 
merchants may be are being a little more guarded about the marketing dollars that they’re spending 
on certain campaigns and things like that. And that has an impact to business for sure. That’s an 
area. 
 I think that the UK consumer, just in general, is - that’s just weaker than it was at this point in time 
last year. So those are two that stand out. But I think for our business where we do - you know, a 
significant amount of volume cross border - one of the main things that impacts that are currency 
changes. And, you know, we’ve seen the dollar strengthen against a basket of currencies. But, 
you know, one that stood out for me in the quarter was the Australian dollar. 
 As you know, Australia is a country where we have a very large penetration into the digital users 
there. And as the dollar strengthened by around 7 % - that certainly has an impact in terms of 
Page | 8 
cross quarter volumes. So, an Australian consumer now after purchasing something from a U.S. 
merchant that’s 7% more expensive. And the way that we account for that is that the country that 
is on the receiving end of that were the revenues recognized. So, in the example what I provided 
with an Australian consumer buying from a U.S. customer - that’s cross border - but that’s U.S. 
revenue. And so, we certainly see an impact to our business from that. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. Yes, that helps to explain why there was a decel in the U.S. revenue growth. 
So, since you mentioned cross border, let me just come to that maybe - and if you think about 
where you exited the year - I think it was 14% in constant currency - are you assuming some 
amount of gradual recovery in that metric in your 2019 guidance? 
John Rainey: Not in the first half of the year. The first half of the year we expect to be pretty consistent 
with this. We will get to the back half of the year - comps get a little bit easier in certain cases. We 
also have initiatives that we’re embarking on that are specific to PayPal - will give us some growth 
opportunities as well. 
Jason Kupferberg: Can you take price at all on cross border to help offset some of the volume ((inaudible))? 
I know you had done that a couple of years ago. 
John Rainey: You can but - you know, that’s something that - I’ve probably overused this term - but I 
describe it as a little bit of sugar high sometimes. 
Jason Kupferberg: Yes. 
John Rainey: But, you know, it feels good right when it’s happening but when you come off of it, not so 
great. And so, when we price, we really do it to maximize long term value. It’s not something that 
we’re going to manipulate prices to drive an outcome one quarter to the next. We really try to price 
to where we’re providing value to our consumers and merchants. And so, that is definitely a lever. 
Page | 9 
And is one that is - you know, when you look at the elasticity there, it’s pretty reliable in the short 
term. But in the long term, you know, the cure for high prices is high prices- and if you price too 
high, you’re just inviting competition to come in. 
Jason Kupferberg: Right. Okay. So, if we come back to the 2019 top line outlook - 16% to 17% - and then 
if we adjust for Synchrony and acquisitions - I think it would be more like 18% to 19%. And on that 
same basis, you did about 21% in 2018. So, let’s just talk about what some of the drivers are being 
implied in the–deceleration are, presumably eBay’s a part of it - but wanted to get your perspective, 
understanding that you guys have had a track record of setting your initial guidance at very 
achievable levels. 
John Rainey: Yes. So, the number you quoted excluded acquisitions, but I think that’s an important point 
to mention. Certainly, eBay is part of it, but - you know, we’re a company that has been growing 
revenue just -- let’s say sort of nice round numbers here - on average 20% a year - and you do get 
into a situation where the law of large numbers begin to impact you. But I think that’s something 
about us that is different from a lot of companies like us is that, not only are we growing revenue at 
that rate but we’re generating free cash flow margins at that rate as well. 
 And I bring that up because it allows us to take that cash flow and then go and invest and grow. 
And some of that does come through the form of acquisitions. And so that has been a tool that 
we’ve had to keep that level of growth rate up in that same range of 20% - is to be able to go out 
and acquire companies and capabilities that enable us to continue to do that. And that’s - again - 
to us, I think, somewhat unique because of the cash flow margins that we have and that provides 
us a luxury that many others don’t. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay, fair enough. I mean - I guess relative to when you had given us the preliminary 
guide for ’19 in October, you had talked about doing about 17% revenue growth. So, it’s essentially 
Page | 10 
the same now. Yet, it does seem like you are absorbing more head winds from eBay and from 
Cross Border than you would have envisioned back three months ago. Is that fair? 
John Rainey: That is fair. And I’m glad you asked the question because I want to put a finer point on that. 
The guidance that we gave yesterday relative to the guidance that we gave in October, it’s exactly 
in line as the way that we think about it. 
 We have absorbed some headwinds but we’ve also - you know, uncovered some things that we 
think are opportunities for us. And it enables us to absorb those headwinds - eBay being one - and 
I know we’ll talk about that. But, it’s not a change in guidance at all. You know, when we first give 
that initial kind of head nod in terms of what we’re thinking about in 2019 guidance, we tend to do 
that in broader ranges. And that’s 17-ish percent guidance that we gave. 
Jason Kupferberg: Yes, okay. That’s helpful. Just one other one on 2019. We’ve had some questions 
about the modeling of transaction revenues versus the OVAS line - is all of Venmo’s revenue on 
the transaction line? Is the Synchrony rev share in OVAS? What about the recent acquisitions? 
Is that all in transaction? Any color there would be helpful. 
John Rainey: Yes, so, my apologies to every investor for all the changes that have occurred with other 
value-added services revenue. There’s noise there because of held for sale accounting and 
Synchrony. But, you know, that’s predominantly credit today. We do have some amount of interest 
income related to customer balances. But maybe the right way to think about that is, we still will 
have some transitioning of the Synchrony relationship into 2019. Maybe the right way to think 
about that for the first quarter is - I would expect similar year-over-year changes in OVAS - as what 
we saw in the 4th quarter - maybe slightly better. And so, it declined 19% in the 4th quarter. You 
know, maybe more towards the mid-teens or something like that would be the decline in the first 
quarter. 
Page | 11 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. 
John Rainey: You get those back after the year - you know, a lot of the noise… 
Jason Kupferberg: you are lapping 
John Rainey: Yes, we are lapping. So, it’s an easier comp. 
Jason Kupferberg: Yes. Okay, that’s good. So, let’s talk a little bit about eBay. I believe the company is 
themselves is actually guiding to flat-ish, organic volume growth on their platform in 2019. I know 
that PayPal’s eBay volume growth has been running maybe a couple of points below that of eBay 
itself at least for the last couple of quarters. So, would it be fair to conclude that, you know, in the 
first quarter - and even in full year 2019 - that you’d expect PayPal’s eBay volume to perhaps be 
down modestly? And as part of that maybe you can talk about to the extent you have a view on 
where there might be some of those reconciling items between what eBay reports for its GMV 
growth versus what shows up in PayPal’s numbers. 
John Rainey: Sure. So, there’s always a bit of a delta between their reported GMV growth and our TPV 
growth. Some of the items to call out -- classifieds - it’s something that we don’t have - they have. 
Korea - is an entity where we don’t have PayPal. They have an acquisition in Japan that is not 
reflected in our numbers as well. 
 So, if you look - I believe the delta - there has been two to three points in terms of what they report 
versus what we report. And that’s a - I think that’s a normal sum as we look into the future. And 
so, it’s certainly - I believe they guided 0% to 2% GMV growth. 
 And so, you’re right - one would conclude if that same delta exists, then we’re talking flat to down 
one maybe on eBay. And so that’s - you know, it’s hard to have a different forecast from what they 
Page | 12 
suggest. You know, we certainly do our own estimates and analysis on that but that’s probably a 
pretty good reflection of what we expect in our business. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. I think that you said on the call that eBay’s intermediation efforts to date have 
been immaterial to PayPal. When do you expect that they will become material? I know that they’re 
able to add another country this year. 
John Rainey: So, they can do 5% in two entities through July or June of this year. And I believe it moves 
to 10% to two entities. So, there’ll be kind of a gradual increase in terms of what they can do. But 
they’ll also - presumably - as they’ve said later in 2019 - they’ll be adding PayPal as a payment 
option which could mute some of that impact. 
 But - you know, I kind of - I guess maybe a silver lining to some of the things that we’re seeing with 
eBay is - you know, there was sort of this belief or expectation that in 2021 you would see more of 
a step change in terms of the amount of volume that we have with eBay. And the fact that they’re 
growing less right now - all that does is make that trajectory more linear - and actually mute any 
impact that we would have in that period of time. 
 And for us, Jason, really our focus is - eBay is a great customer and we want to continue to power 
their payment experiences - but if you look at - I believe we made some comments yesterday 
around the other top 20 marketplaces on our platform - and the amount of volume that they’re 
generating is about 30% larger than what eBay is today. And those are growing north of 40%. And 
with many of those we are actually expanding our relationship. 
 And so, this is - when we said we can handle this transition - this is precisely what I want to point 
people to because this is where we’re focused. This is where we’re investing our resources and 
our product development. It’s the power of these other experiences that can help sellers with 
multiple marketplaces around the world. 
Page | 13 
Jason Kupferberg: Are you still expecting the PayPal button to be a part of the eBay’s intermediated 
payment experience by mid-year - I think that’s the timing we had been looking forward. Is that still 
on track? 
John Rainey: Yes - you know, they said later this year, but I don’t know how, you know, exact - you know, 
mid-year is. I mean, it could come a little bit after that but that’s our expectation. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. Another one of the silver linings that has been talked about in the past related 
to the reconfigured eBay relationship is PayPal’s ability obviously to work with some other 
marketplaces - competitors of eBay - where there were historically restrictions in place. Can you 
give us just an update on the pipeline of potential new marketplace announcements? 
John Rainey: Yes, that’s kind of a tricky question. I don’t want to front run anything but the discussions 
that we’re having and the types of experiences that we’re developing for some of these other market 
places and technology platforms - they’re under way. And, you know, I would expect it will - it’s not 
as if you’re going to have to wait until 2020 to hear something from us. You should expect 
something this year in fact with some of these. And some of them we need to - depending upon 
the nature of the agreement - we might have to wait to do something in 2020 - but we can begin 
working on a lot of this right now. 
 So, I guess what I’d like to say is just more to come on that. I don’t want to make any 
announcements prematurely. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. No, that’s certainly fair enough. Let’s talk a little bit about transaction take rate. 
I know that it did increase quarter-over-quarter for the first time since separation. There were some 
moving parts in the area - FX hedges. I was hoping you could kind of go into some more detail - 
Page | 14 
break down some of the pieces, the drivers here - both for the quarter-over-quarter and the yearover-year comparison in transaction take rate. 
John Rainey: Sure. Transaction take-rate declined - I believe nine basis point year-over-year. The entirety 
of that was related to free PtoP via PayPal or Venmo. So that was a full nine basis point. Now, 
there’s some other moving pieces there. So, let me provide some color to that as well. 
 A tailwind that we had -- a benefit to take-rate -- was the fact that we had hedge gain - and that - 
there was a difference - we had a hedge gain this year and a hedge loss last year. That was five 
basis points of benefit. And so, everything else below that - it’s kind of onesies, twosies that are a 
little more of a reflection of mix in our business - that is more sort of consistent of what you see in 
a normal quarter. And so, the hedge gain - hard to kind of predict what’s going to happen there 
from one year to the next. But certainly, when we look at the effect of free P2P, that will be there 
for a while. 
 One of the benefits that we had was related to what I refer to earlier is OCT -- the instant withdrawal 
-- because the way that’s accounted for is, that is - it’s revenue we receive but it’s actually not a 
transaction. And so, there’s no TPV associated with that. And so that has a way of buoying that 
number a little bit. And we should expect to see that continue going forward. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. So, it sounds like in general you’re on a more positive trajectory just in terms of 
underlining year-over-year change in transaction take-rate once you adjust for quarterly noise such 
as FX hedges. 
John Rainey: For sure - and just to be clear. I don’t expect transaction take-rate to begin increasing into 
perpetuity. That’s not what I’m suggesting. But the rate of decline is certainly going forward much 
less than what we’ve seen if you were to go back say two years ago. 
Page | 15 
Jason Kupferberg: Right. Well, that’s certainly encouraging. How should we think about transaction 
expense, loan loss rate in 2019 versus 2018? 
John Rainey: Yes. So, transaction expense - pretty similar to what we saw in 2018. That’s been pretty 
consistent. There are puts and takes there that we’ve talked about albeit, you know, new customers 
may be vaulting a credit card which is more expensive but the growth of Venmo which tends to be 
more balanced towards ACH to offset some of that. So, I would expect that 95 to 100 basis point 
range to continue into the future. So, kind of around where it was in 2018. 
 On transaction losses - also, the 18-basis point that we had in the 4th quarter, that’s probably a 
pretty good number to model out into the future. The loan loss number - that’s one that - the 4th 
quarter is probably a little better than what one should assume for modeling purposes. That came 
in at three basis points. Really five -- four to five is a better way to think of that going forward. But 
again, that’s one that we can throttle to because we look at the revenue side of that as well in terms 
of the offerings that we’re providing. So, we’re really sort of managing that on a net basis. But, 
probably four to five basis points is a good number for 2019. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. And then just on the transaction expense - you kind of alluded to this - but wanted 
to understand a little bit more about the funding behavior that you are seeing among new users 
that have joined kind of in each successive year since consumer choice was launched, you know, 
what they’re tending to choose as their default funding source since they’re really, you know, 
starting from scratch if you will - you know, existing users may be just keep their legacy default 
funding method because of inertia - but what are the new users tending to do? And then over time 
do those new users have more of an effect on the overall base? And, you know, is that something 
that’s many years out - but just trying to see what the comfort level is with kind of the mid to high 
90’s on the transaction expense, you know, for the next two to three years. 
Page | 16 
John Rainey: So - let me start with the main point that you ended with there at the end. We don’t expect 
any appreciable change in transaction expense as we look out into the next several years. You 
know, as you get five, six years out maybe there’s something different that we don’t see today - but 
certainly for our planning purposes, that’s roughly in the range that we’ve discussed. 
 But you are right that new users tend to vault a card - be it a debit or a credit card. And certainly, 
it differs based upon what demographic you’re talking about. The younger demographic -- the 
millennial demographic -- doesn’t have the same relationship with traditional financial institutions 
that maybe someone in my vintage does. 
 And so, we see a lot more debit and ACH from them - but a typical user will come to us - and let’s 
just say they’ve vaulted a credit card and that may be what they use on their first couple of 
purchases. But what we see is when they go through the choice experience and they designate or 
they designate a certain preferred card, many times that’s when they will come and add additional 
cards. And there’s - the majority of customers that have gone through and designated the preferred 
card actually use multiple funding methods. 
 So, no different than probably what most people do in their behavior in the offline world where you’ll 
pull out a certain credit card based upon the size of the transaction or where you’re shopping with, 
you know, maybe for a restaurant - or maybe at a gas pump, you’re pulling out a debit card. And 
so, we’re seeing the same type of behavior with our users in their digital wallets as well. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. And then the - just the implications for the servicing revenues that you’re getting. 
I mean, how long should we expect those to last and is the Q4 run rate on that kind of the right 
number going forward? 
John Rainey: That’s a good number to assume for the first half of the year. 
Page | 17 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. And is that - does that go through OVAS? 
John Rainey: It does, yes. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay, got it. So, the other topic I wanted to hit on - you know, there was obviously all 
the talk last year around asset light and you got the big transaction done with Synchrony - there 
has been some talk here and there about maybe round two with asset light at some point. You do 
still have the international consumer credit report portfolio on your balance sheet. You’ve got 
PayPal working capital. So, you’ve got - I think a couple of billion or so of receivables. What’s your 
latest thinking there? 
John Rainey: Yes, so, absolutely – as we have said we don’t want to have credit be such a huge draw on 
our cash flow that we can’t do other things that are maybe, you know, higher return forms of capital. 
So, you know, we think that given the credit growth we’re going to get to a point out in the next 
several years where we’re going to need to do something very similar to what we did with U.S. 
consumer book. 
 And so, we’re already looking at options there and working on scenarios because we don’t want to 
be too reliant on credit given the sort of lack of durability of maybe those earnings in a credit cycle. 
But also - it’s also a very capital-intensive business - and so, something similar to what we did with 
the U.S. book is ideal where we have some type of partnership where we can still participate in 
profits but aren’t too reliant on it and don’t have to originate the loans. So, you know, probably - 
certainly don’t want to mislead you and suggest that likely we’ll make an announcement in 2019. 
That’s not in the plans but if you’re going to do something in the years after that - you want to be 
thoughtful about it - you’ve got to start working on it right now -- which we are. 
Jason Kupferberg: And just to follow up on U.S. consumer credit - you know, I know you had talked about 
when you were doing the transaction, you certainly saw - expected to see the flywheel benefits of 
Page | 18 
having PayPal credit available to your consumers. Is that the experience that you’re, you know, 
seeing so far since the deal closed or are you even seeing increased engagement? 
John Rainey: Yes, absolutely. The deal with Synchrony has been - by all accounts - just a real win-win. 
And one of the concerns that we had was there was - somewhat of a governor on our U.S. credit 
business in terms of being able to grow that, in part because of the cash flow needs. And, we don’t 
have that governor there with Synchrony. And Synchrony has been such a great partner and we 
have such aligned interest in this and so, we couldn’t probably be more pleased about how that 
portfolio is doing and what we’re seeing there. 
Jason Kupferberg: Good, good to hear. I wanted to also talk a little bit about, you know, Pay with Points. 
I know that’s been in the works for a while and you talked about it a little bit on the call last night. I 
think you said Citi and Discover have gone live - sounds like more issuers are going to be coming 
into the fold in 2019. So, maybe if you could just talk a little bit more about the importance of the 
initiative. And could this actually start to move the needle a little bit on TPV this year or is that more 
of a 2020 likelihood just based on how this is going to ramp and roll out and maybe you can just 
talk a little bit about how the issuers are planning to promote it. 
John Rainey: Sure. So, if you haven’t had a chance yet, I would encourage the audience to look at our 
investor update. I think on the eighth or ninth page there’s a depiction of what this experience looks 
like and the ability to pay with points and how simple it is. And we’re really excited about this. Many 
of you probably heard me talk about this - this is one of the aspects of our growth that I am 
particularly excited about because technically, you are allowing what is sort of this huge cache of 
reward points to be used at over 20 million merchants around the world now. 
 And the importance of that is it requires no integration on the part of the merchant. And so that has 
always been sort of a long pole in the tent of having more options for these credit card issuers to 
go out and have more options of additional merchants. And with our integration we basically make 
Page | 19 
that a form of payment. And to the merchant they actually don’t even know whether it’s paid with 
a credit card or debit card or points. And we get the ability to monetize that and in many cases it’s 
a very low transaction expense. So, this is something I think has a lot of promise as we look out 
into the future. 
 But with respect to this being impactful in 2019, you know, it’s not something that I would call out, 
as going to be quite enormous or huge inflection - but the mid 20’s TPV growth does include some 
assumption about, you know, what we do here. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. And we’ll look forward to seeing more of the issuers actually roll it out. I also 
wanted to see - just to circle back to Venmo again for a minute. Can you give us any thoughts on, 
you know, whether or not we should expect to see some new products, services, features 
introduced in the course of the next 12 months? I mean, obviously you’ve got three very active 
initiatives at the moment but is there a vision and a strategy to even extend the aperture further in 
that regard? 
John Rainey: I wouldn’t say in the next 12 months. We’ve got some heavy lifting to do to continue to grow 
like we are with these new areas and don’t want to be distracted by additional features. You know, 
beyond 12 months - yes, there’s opportunities for features that we don’t have today. But our eye is 
on the ball here are with the three initiatives that we have. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay. All right, it makes sense. Well, in the interest of time, I think we’re going to leave 
it there. I appreciate everyone who reached out with some questions and obviously John and the 
team, thank you for taking the time this afternoon. 
John Rainey: Thank you Jason. We appreciate this opportunity to always sort of further clarify some of 
the questions that come out of the day of earnings and I’m sure we’ll be speaking with many of you 
over the coming weeks in clarifying things further. But - again, we thought 2018 was a really good 
Page | 20 
year and we’re pleased with what we see in terms of the options that we have walking into 2019. 
Certainly, there are some things that, you know, are more difficult in terms of the operating 
environment versus last year but, you know, we’re still planning on the type of growth that we’ve 
been seeing. So, I’m looking forward to it. Thank you Jason. 
Jason Kupferberg: Okay, thanks again. Thank you, everybody. Goodbye. 
Operator: And this concludes today’s conference. Thank you for your participation and you may now 
disconnect.


Client Id: 77
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS 
EDITED TRANSCRIPT
PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
EVENT DATE/TIME: JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM GMT
OVERVIEW:
PYPL reported 4Q18 revenues of $4.23b and non-GAAP EPS of $0.69. Expects 
2019 revenues to be $17.85-18.10b and non-GAAP EPS to be $2.84-2.91. Co. also 
expects 1Q19 revenues to be $4.08-4.13b and non-GAAP EPS to be $0.66-0.68.
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
C O R P O R A T E P A R T I C I P A N T S
Daniel H. Schulman PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Gabrielle Rabinovitch PayPal Holdings, Inc. - VP of IR 
John D. Rainey PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
William J. Ready PayPal Holdings, Inc. - Executive VP & COO 
C O N F E R E N C E C A L L P A R T I C I P A N T S
Darrin David Peller Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Analyst 
Georgios Mihalos Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst 
Heath Patrick Terry Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Research Division - MD 
James Eugene Faucette Morgan Stanley, Research Division - Executive Director 
Lisa Ann Dejong Ellis MoffettNathanson LLC - Partner 
Tien-Tsin Huang JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division - Senior Analyst 
P R E S E N T A T I O N
Operator 
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to PayPal's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call. (Operator Instructions) As 
a reminder, this call is being recorded. 
I would now like to introduce your host for today's call, Ms. Gabrielle Rabinovitch, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead. 
Gabrielle Rabinovitch - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - VP of IR 
Thank you, Andrew. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. Welcome to PayPal Holdings' earnings conference call for the fourth quarter 
and full year 2018. Joining me today on the call are Dan Schulman, our President and CEO; Bill Ready, our EVP, Chief Operating Officer; and John 
Rainey, our Chief Financial Officer and EVP Global Customer Operations. 
We're providing a slide presentation to accompany our commentary. This conference call is also being webcast, and both the presentation and 
call are available through the Investor Relations section of our website. We will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about our company's 
performance. You can find the reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the presentation 
accompanying this conference call. 
In addition, management will make forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve 
risks and uncertainties. These statements include our guidance for first quarter and full year 2019, our medium-term guidance and the impact and 
timing of our acquisitions. Our actual results may differ materially from these statements. You can find more information about risks, uncertainties 
and other factors that could affect our results in our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC 
and available on the Investor Relations section of our website. You should not rely on any forward-looking statements. 
All information in this presentation is as of today's date, January 30, 2019. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update the information presented 
today. 
With that, let me turn the call over to Dan. 
2
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Thank you, Gabrielle, and thanks, everyone, for joining us on today's call. I'm pleased to report that PayPal had another strong quarter ending 2018 
with a record-breaking growth across a number of key customer and financial metrics. Our transformation into an open digital payments platform 
is clearly resonating with our customers. PayPal continues to benefit from increasing tailwinds as cash continues to digitize and more and more 
aspects of our lives move to mobile. Our ability to leverage these trends is reflected in both our current results and our forward-looking guidance 
for 2019. 
In 2018, we set new benchmarks in terms of spot revenue growth, net new active accounts and engagement across our platform. We developed 
industry-defining products, acquired leading-edge capabilities, strengthened existing partnerships and entered into new strategic relationships 
with some of the biggest, most influential global brands in technology, retail and finance. 
We aspire to be the de facto operating system for mobile and digital commerce around the world, creating value for all of our partners and customers 
across the entire payments ecosystem. And each year, we make substantial progress towards that goal. 
Let's start with our numbers. In 2018, we delivered $15.45 billion in revenue, up 18% on a spot basis and FX-neutral basis or 21% normalizing for 
the sale of our U.S. consumer credit receivables. That represents our highest annual spot revenue growth rate since separation. Revenues in 2018 
associated with eBay grew 4% while merchant services grew 22%, more than 5x that of eBay. In the fourth quarter, we generated $4.23 billion of 
revenue, growing 14% or 21% normalized. This is the first time in our history that we surpassed $4 billion of revenue in a single quarter, and we 
achieved this milestone despite strong headwinds from slower-than-expected eBay volume growth and greater-than-forecasted FX pressures. 
For 2018, our overall payment volume grew 26% on a currency-neutral basis to $578 billion. We processed just shy of 10 billion transactions in the 
year. For the quarter, our TPV, excluding eBay, grew 29% on an FX-neutral basis, significantly outpacing the market as we continue to gain share. 
In the quarter, eBay had 0 growth in its volume, and it exits 2018 representing just 10% of our overall TPV, down 300 basis points year-over-year. 
Our strong revenue growth and disciplined OpEx spend combined to drive a 28% year-over-year increase in 2018 non-GAAP earnings per share 
of $2.42. In Q4, we delivered $0.69 of non-GAAP EPS, up 26%. As we mentioned last quarter, we invested some of our below-the-line EPS benefits 
to drive customer acquisition, and that clearly paid off. 
One of the clear highlights of Q4 is our net new active number. We added a record 13.8 million net new active accounts to our platform, up 58% 
year-over-year. Approximately 2.9 million of these net new actives came from our acquisitions with almost 11 million net new actives driven 
organically, the best quarterly organic net new active number in PayPal's history. We added 39 million net new actives for the year, another all-time 
record for us. We now have 267 million active accounts on our platform with approximately 246 million consumers shopping at more than 21 
million merchants. We are targeting more than 300 million active accounts on our platform by the end of 2019. 
Even with this acceleration in net new actives, we continue to grow our customer engagement. Engagement grew by 9% to almost 37 transactions 
per active account. This drove $164 billion in TPV in the quarter, up 25% on an FX-neutral basis, and is our first quarter to ever exceed $150 billion 
of TPV. 
Mobile continues to drive our growth with $67 billion of mobile TPV in Q4 alone, representing 41% of our total TPV. One Touch, with its market 
leading checkout conversion rates, continues to grow with over 123 million consumers and 11 million merchants opted in. 
Venmo continued its strong momentum this holiday season. We are witnessing significant increases in monetized volume growth and monthly 
active users. This quarter, we drove $19 billion in payment volume through Venmo, an increase of 80% year-over-year. For the full year, Venmo's 
volume increased 79%, with $62 billion in payment volume processed, and we are on pace for Venmo to drive almost $100 billion in TPV in 2019. 
For the last 2 consecutive quarters, Venmo's TPV surpassed the volume of TPV we processed from eBay. 
Pay with Venmo continues to attract new partners, including Shopify, Hulu, Bigcommerce and Jay-Z's Tidal music service. The total number of 
Venmo users who have made a monetizable transaction is now 29%, reflecting a steady month-over-month increase. The Venmo card continues 
3
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
to gain significant traction, Instant Transfer revenues continue to increase. And as a result, our Venmo initiatives have produced a revenue run rate 
going into 2019 that now exceeds $200 million, with revenues being equally split between Instant Cash Out and other monetizable services. I 
couldn't be more pleased with our revenue trends and the numerous incremental growth opportunities we see for Venmo. 
Braintree continued to grow impressively, demonstrating its market leadership since our acquisition 5 years ago. Last month, we announced the 
Braintree platform had processed over 500 billion in authorized payment volume since 2014 with more than 6 billion transactions last year alone. 
We added KFC Australia, Krispy Kreme, Deutsche Telekom, Deutsche Post, Live Nation, Ticketmaster, Acer computers and TripAdvisor Experiences 
to its platform, joining a powerful list of leading mobile apps using Braintree such as Uber, Wish, Boxed, Facebook and Airbnb. 
PayPal's opportunities to expand internationally continue to grow with our global FI, tech and merchant partnerships continuing to multiply. Two 
countries I'd like to highlight are India and Japan. In India, we benefited from strong consumer demand since we went live in late 2017. In 2019, 
we will continue to invest in frictionless experiences for everyday payments by Indian consumers. We're expanding our merchant and financial 
institution partnerships throughout the country's ecosystem, bringing a truly global platform experience to India's consumers and merchants. 
I'm also pleased with our progress in Japan. We've launched a suite of services that unlocks the network effects of the PayPal platform for merchants 
and consumers there. For the consumer, this includes One Touch payment, buyer protection and instant bank funding. Japanese merchants also 
benefit from instant settlement as well as the increase in customer acquisition and conversion we see in other countries around the world from 
One Touch. We have also added ANA airlines, the largest airline in Japan, to our growing merchant base. 
We've now secured partnerships with over 20 top-tier global financial institutions, including 8 of the top 10 banks in the U.S. In 2018, we saw nearly 
40 bank-led marketing campaigns that encouraged their customers to pay with PayPal. One of the most exciting features to come out of our 
financial institution relationships is enabling our mutual consumers to use their credit card reward points as a tender type in the PayPal Wallet. I'm 
pleased to announce that we launched this capability with Citi and Discover at the end of Q4 and plan to roll this out to multiple partners in 2019 
including Chase, AMEX and Barclaycard. It's been estimated that nearly 10 billion of reward points go unused every year in the U.S. alone. Helping 
to address that issue is a huge opportunity for consumers and is yet another way that our 2-sided platform is connecting consumers and merchants 
in unique and powerful ways. 
I'd like to now turn the call over to Bill, who will provide additional color on some of our other recent partnerships. 
William J. Ready - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - Executive VP & COO 
Thanks, Dan. It's clear that PayPal is becoming the payment platform of choice for marketplaces and multiseller e-commerce platforms. Our top 
20 partners and marketplaces total payment volume, excluding eBay, grew by over 40% in 2018, reaching nearly $85 billion. This segment of our 
business is now much larger and faster-growing than our legacy eBay Marketplace business, and we expect this growth to continue in 2019 as we 
expand our current partnerships and welcome new partners onto our platform. 
We are working with some of the leading companies and their respective industries, including Etsy, Uber, Airbnb, Grubhub and Pinterest. In Q4, 
we began piloting One Touch seller sign-up with noteworthy partners, including Walmart. One Touch seller sign-up significantly reduces the friction 
of signing up to sell in a new marketplace for merchants and helps marketplaces connect with sellers that have a proven history with PayPal. One 
of the most pronounced trends in e-commerce over the past several years has been the many new and rapidly growing forums for small businesses 
to sell to customers around the world. PayPal is helping merchants to manage and grow their business across those new forums, and now with 
One Touch seller sign-up, we are making it easier than ever for merchants to begin selling in a new marketplace or digital channel. In fact, those 
merchants that are using PayPal to sell across multiple channels already grow at nearly 3x the rate of those that sell on only one marketplace. 
Through PayPal for Partners and Marketplaces and One Touch seller sign-up, we are connecting small businesses and merchants of all sizes to all 
the best places to sell, giving them the opportunity to reach more buyers and drive greater sales. 
Connecting our 21 million-plus merchants to customers wherever they shop is a core element of our efforts to democratize access to the digital 
economy. We believe these partnerships and the increasing use of our PayPal for Partners and Marketplaces product will help to seamlessly connect 
4
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
buyers and sellers in the world's highest-growth marketplaces and digital sales channels, ultimately making the digital economy more accessible 
for consumers and merchants around the world. 
Additionally, we're announcing today that we have entered into a strategic partnership with Paymentus, an electronic billing service company that 
provides e-bill presentment, management and payment capabilities to large-scale merchants in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. PayPal will enable 
payment processing for Paymentus transactions, including debit card, credit card and ACH through our Braintree platform, as well as PayPal, Venmo 
and PayPal Credit payment options for existing and new merchants. Additionally, we will leverage the Paymentus platform to enable a consumer 
bill payment experience within the PayPal app. Not only will billers on the Paymentus platform be able to present bills to PayPal consumers directly, 
but this feature will also allow other billers and billing platforms to present bills to PayPal consumers, enable payment with PayPal. This opens up 
bill payment as a vertical for us. And overall, bill payment has the potential to generate tens of billions of dollars of payment volume. 
Dan, I'll hand it back to you now. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Thanks, Bill. It's great to see deep relationships, like those we have with Walmart and now Paymentus, that utilize the full scope of PayPal's platform 
to drive mutual value for our joint customers. We expect to welcome additional partnerships throughout 2019. 
I'd like to end my remarks by recognizing the extraordinary generosity of our customers. We shattered our previous Giving Tuesday record this 
holiday season with nearly $98 million donated to charitable causes in just 1 day. And for the full year, more than $9.5 billion was donated to 
nonprofit organizations across the world through the PayPal platform. It means a lot to all of us at PayPal that our platform can be used to make 
such a large difference to nonprofits and charities across the globe. 
2018 was a strong year for us with record revenue and net new actives, and we are well positioned to continue that growth. The network effects 
of our scale continue to accelerate. Our breadth of services and products go well beyond checkout, and we are increasingly seen as a must-have 
platform for retailers who are battling for relevance in the era of digital commerce. 
I'm encouraged by the progress we are demonstrating in monetizing Venmo, and I'm confident it will generate significant revenues and profits in 
the years ahead. Our various international efforts are ramping, and 2019 is shaping up to be another strong year. We'll need to execute against the 
backdrop of an unpredictable world economy, but we have the tools and capabilities to continue our growth and progress in the years to come. 
With that, I'll turn it over to John. John? 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
Thanks, Dan. I'd also like to thank all of our customers, partners and employees for making 2018 a great year. We achieved notable milestones and 
are pleased with what we've accomplished. In 2018, we delivered significant innovation across our platform, introducing new features and services 
for our consumers and merchants globally. We also made 4 acquisitions that have expanded our offerings in addressable markets; completed the 
sale of our U.S. consumer credit portfolio, which resulted in approximately $6.5 billion of cash proceeds; and announced key issuer technology and 
merchant partnerships. Entering 2019, we are well positioned to build on our momentum and continue delivering strong revenue growth with 
margin expansion. We remain focused on creating long-term, sustainable shareholder value. 
I'd now like to discuss our fourth quarter results. Total payment volume was $164 billion, an increase of 23% in spot and 25% on a currency-neutral 
basis. Our 2018 acquisitions contributed approximately 2 points of growth. Merchant services volume on a currency-neutral basis grew 29% to 
$147 billion. P2P volume, which is part of merchant services, grew 46% to $39 billion and represented approximately 24% of total payment volume 
versus 20% in Q4 last year. In comparison, on a foreign currency-neutral basis, we saw no growth in volume associated with eBay. And on a spot 
basis, this volume declined approximately $300 million from Q4 2017. 
5
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
eBay Marketplaces represented 10% of volume on our platform, down from 13% in the fourth quarter last year. Revenue in the fourth quarter 
increased 14% on both a spot and a currency-neutral basis to $4.23 billion. Adjusting for the sale of receivables to Synchrony, revenue growth 
would have been approximately 21%. Acquisitions contributed approximately 1.5 points to revenue growth in the quarter. The translation effect 
from the stronger dollar negatively impacted revenue by $63 million. This impact was offset by $39 million in revenue from our hedge program. 
As a result, the net effect of the stronger dollar was a headwind of $24 million in the quarter. 
Exiting 2018, at current rates, we estimate that our hedge positions would result in the recognition of $171 million in international transaction 
revenue in 2019. U.S. revenue grew 9% versus Q4 2017 and approximately 20% adjusting for the credit receivable sale. International revenue grew 
19% on a currency-neutral basis. On a spot basis, transaction revenue grew 19% in the quarter. Revenue from other value-added services declined 
19%. Normalizing for the receivables sale, revenue from other value-added services would have grown approximately 35%. In the quarter, we 
recognized approximately $55 million of revenue from Synchrony related to transitioning loan, servicing and collections. 
Revenue from our eBay Marketplaces was lower than expected in the quarter. On average, for the 8 quarters preceding Q4 2018, volume related 
to eBay grew 6%, currency neutral. On the same basis, this growth rate dropped to 0 in the fourth quarter. For the first time in 2 years, revenue 
declined versus the prior year's quarter. This decline was unrelated to the transition to managed payments, which had no material impact on our 
results. Despite this, geographic and product diversification, including from our acquisitions, Venmo monetization and our growing APAC business 
allowed us to continue to deliver solid revenue growth. In the fourth quarter, transaction take rate was 2.35%. This is the first sequential increase 
in transaction take rate since separation. Versus Q4 2017, transaction take rate declined 9 basis points, which is the lowest level of decline we've 
experienced on a year-over-year basis. Growth in our P2P business, continued deceleration of eBay and lower cross-border volumes contributed 
to the reduction in transaction take rate. 
Total take rate in Q4 was flat sequentially and down 20 basis points from the prior year, primarily as a result of the receivable sale. Both transaction 
take rate and total take rate benefited from revenue related to our hedge gains. 
Volume-based expenses increased 21% in Q4 to $1.9 billion. Transaction expense represented 96 basis points as a rate of TPV, flat sequentially and 
versus last year. We saw an increase in card-based funding which was offset by P2P growth. Transaction loss was 18 basis points as a rate of TPV, 
flat sequentially and an improvement of 1 basis point versus Q4 2017. An improvement in our Venmo loss rate contributed to the stronger 
performance versus last year. Loan loss was 3 basis points as a rate of TPV. 
Transaction margin dollars grew 9% for the fourth -- from the fourth quarter last year to $2.3 billion. Transaction margin as a rate was 55%, flat 
sequentially and a decline of approximately 250 basis points from 2017. The reduction in revenue from the receivable sale, which began to affect 
other value-added services in Q3 '18, in conjunction with the related held-for-sale accounting treatment, which started in Q4 '17, affected both the 
growth in transaction margin dollars as well as the rate. 
Non-transaction-related expenses grew 7% versus last year. Growth in these expenses was affected by both the lapping of the held-for-sale accounting 
changes, which resulted in a lower rate of growth year-over-year as well as an increase in non-transaction-related expenses related to our acquisitions. 
Normalizing for both of these, non-transaction-related expenses grew 9%. 
When we reported Q3 results in October, we indicated that we expected to see higher-than-usual, below-the-line benefits in the fourth quarter 
and discussed our plans to opportunistically reinvest this upside. Accordingly, in the quarter, we ramped our spend in several key strategic investment 
areas including sales and marketing, which increased 21%. 
General and administrative expenses grew 27% in the fourth quarter, predominantly driven by acquisition-related costs. In the aggregate, our 2018 
acquisitions added approximately 5.5 points of growth to the increase in nontransaction-related expenses in the fourth quarter. 
Operating income grew 13% to $913 million, and operating margin declined 20 basis points year-over-year in Q4. Adjusting for acquisitions, 
operating margin would have expanded 80 basis points. Other income in the quarter increased by $67 million, primarily due to net unrealized 
gains on minority investments. Strong revenue growth and operating efficiencies resulted in non-GAAP EPS growth of 26% to $0.69. 
6
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
We ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents and investments of $10 billion and short-term borrowings of $2 billion. Free cash flow in the 
quarter was $910 million, which equates to $0.22 of free cash flow for every dollar of revenue generated. 
I'd now like to discuss our guidance for the full year and the first quarter of 2019. The guidance we are providing today is in line with the preliminary 
outlook we provided in October when we reported our third quarter results. 
For the full year 2019, we expect TPV to grow in the mid-20s percentage range. We expect to generate revenue between $17.85 billion and $18.1 
billion, representing currency-neutral growth of 16% to 17%, or 21% to 21% adjusting for the sale to Synchrony. We expect non-GAAP earnings 
per share of $2.84 to $2.91, representing growth of 17% to 20%. 
Our guidance includes the expectation that our 2018 acquisitions will contribute approximately 1.5 points of growth to revenue in 2019 and $0.08 
to $0.10 of dilution to earnings per share. In 2019, we plan to deliver operating margin expansion with continued operating leverage and efficiencies 
more than offsetting this dilutive effect. In 2020, we expect these acquisitions to be accretive to our earnings. 
The diversity of our business is allowing us to maintain our guidance ranges while absorbing a number of headwinds as we enter 2019. While the 
lack of eBay growth remains a challenge and geopolitical uncertainty is affecting growth in places like China and Europe, we are confident in our 
ability to offset these headwinds through new sources of growth, including our expanding marketplace relationships, Venmo monetization, 
domestic India as well as the strong secular growth driving digital payments and mobile commerce. 
We anticipate our non-GAAP effective tax rate will be between 17% and 19%. For 2019, we anticipate free cash flow will exceed $3 billion. With 
approximately $10 billion in cash and an investment-grade debt rating, we are in a strong position to continue to invest with discipline in PayPal's 
growth. In 2018, we returned more than $3.5 billion to cash -- in cash to shareholders through stock repurchases and spent approximately $2.7 
billion on acquisitions. In 2019, we will continue to balance investment with return of capital while maintaining an efficient capital structure. Our 
acquisition pipeline is healthy, and our balance sheet gives us the flexibility to move quickly and be opportunistic. We believe that we are uniquely 
positioned to be a consolidator. At the same time, we plan to continue to return cash to shareholders, consistent with our stated commitment for 
capital return. 
For the first quarter, we expect revenue in the range of $4.08 billion to $4.13 billion or 11% to 13% growth on a currency-neutral basis. Adjusted 
for the sale to Synchrony, we expect that this growth rate would be 19% to 20%. In the first quarter, we are currently forecasting the continuation 
of several of the trends that emerged in the back half of 2018. These include weak eBay performance as well as a more challenging macro in China 
and the U.K. Our plans also anticipate a stronger dollar relative to the euro, pound and Canadian dollar to continue to be a headwind in Q1. We 
expect non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $0.66 to $0.68. 
In summary, we are pleased with our performance and the progress we've made growing our business and advancing our competitive positioning. 
In 2018, we had many operational and financial accomplishments. A few notable milestones include: surpassing 250 million active accounts; Venmo 
surpassing eBay in total payment volume on our platform; processing more than $50 billion of payment volume in a single month; and generating 
both $4 billion in revenue and more than $1 billion in profit before taxes for the first time in a quarter. 
We delivered a great year, and our 2018 results leave us on strong footing to pursue our strategic objectives in 2019 and beyond. Our team is 
focused on disciplined execution against our priorities and moving our business forward. As 2019 begins, we find ourselves operating in a macro 
environment characterized by more variability. From what we see, economic growth is stronger and more resilient than recent market volatility 
would indicate. We have a well-diversified portfolio of products and markets in which we operate and are prepared to react should economic 
conditions change. We remain committed to our long-term financial targets and are confident that the strength of our business, flexibility of our 
balance sheet and operational discipline will allow us to continue delivering value to our shareholders. 
With that, I'll hand it back over to the operator for questions. Thank you. 
7
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
Q U E S T I O N S A N D A N S W E R S
Operator 
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Tien-Tsin Huang with JPMorgan. 
Tien-Tsin Huang - JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division - Senior Analyst 
I wanted to ask, for the first time -- looking at the fourth quarter, you didn't exceed your revenue outlook, I think, for the first time in a while. So I 
was hoping maybe you can comment on maybe what surprised you. Or can you rank maybe what was a little bit softer than expected? 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
Sure, Tien-Tsin, this is John. It's good to speak with you. Our revenue fell within the range that we provided, a little bit lower than the midpoint. 
But as we look at what transpired during the quarter, there are 2 things that stand out that I think are most notable. The first, as we discussed in 
our prepared remarks, is eBay. And I'll just -- I'll give you some context to that. Had eBay performed for us in the fourth quarter like it did in the third 
quarter, that would've been an incremental $32-ish million for the quarter. The other headwind was currency, FX, and we talked about that was 
an impact of $24 million to our quarter. So if you just took those 2, we would have been well above the guidance range that we provided. Other 
than that, we were pleased with our performance in the quarter. But -- and I think it also demonstrates the diversity of our portfolio given that 
we've got so many different geographies in which we operate as well as so many different product offerings that we have. But those are the 2 
things that stand out. 
Tien-Tsin Huang - JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division - Senior Analyst 
All right. That's helpful. That makes a lot of sense. Maybe a quick follow-up, if you don't mind. Just I wanted to ask, last year, active user growth was 
a really nice surprise. It validated the growth and momentum in the business. I'm curious, if we're looking at 2019, what metric might emerge this 
year for us to watch kind of like what we saw with active user growth last year? Could it be engagement, Venmo monetization, choice adoption? 
Just trying to think what we should hone in on. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Tien-Tsin, it's Dan. So yes, clearly, net new actives this year were a big highlight for us. We drove 39 million in the year, 11 million organic in the 
fourth quarter alone. Those are big records for us. At the same time that we were driving that surge in net new actives, engagement was going up 
too. It went up 9%. Now at 37. So you've got a whole host of new -- net new actives coming on, engagement going up. And for us, those are the 2 
key metrics that we look at. I mean, those -- everyone looks at financial metrics. But what drives our financial metrics are how many net new 
customers are we bringing on and what kind of engagement are we driving with them. And I think, by the way, 2019 is going to be another strong 
quarter. We ended with 267 million net new actives. And we said we're going to have -- we're targeting more than 300 million actives on the 
platform by the end of '19. So obviously, 2019's going to -- we think is going to be another strong quarter for that. I would say though the one thing 
that we're looking at and we're quite pleased with is really the rapid adoption of monetizable services on Venmo. We exit 2018 north of a $200 
million revenue run rate on Venmo. That's from literally almost nothing months and months ago from when we first started on that, in the beginning 
of the year. So you're seeing a lot of people question, "Can we monetize Venmo?" And what we've always said about monetizing Venmo is it's not 
monetizing so much. It's adding value-added services that actually increase the value that a Venmo user gets by being part of that Venmo platform. 
And so we're seeing accelerating growth on that. And we don't want to get, again, too far ahead of ourselves on that. But I would say we're pretty 
pleased with what we're seeing on Venmo. It's really going from strength to strength. 
Operator 
And our next question comes from the line of Darrin Peller with Wolfe Research. 
8
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
Darrin David Peller - Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Analyst 
I do want to hone in on that net new user growth. It was much bigger than we saw in the past couple of quarters. I mean, again, if you back out 
even acquisitions, at 11 million new users was, I think, a record as you said on a quarterly basis. So just give us a little more color, if you don't mind, 
on the breakdown of that. How much of that is Venmo? And then I mean, you talked about, I think, 30 million. You exceeded that, as you mentioned, 
quite a bit for the year, almost 39 million, I think it was. So is there a number we could look to 2019 on that front? And then just what kinds of 
engagement plans do you have to really enhance that? But we thought that was a standout number. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Yes, thanks. So I'll just do a quick math with you for this year. We wound up at 267 million actives on the platform. We're targeting more than 300 
million at the end of this year. You do the math there, we're saying at least another 33 million coming on to -- in the year. And so I think that's 
probably a reasonable number to be thinking about. So what's happening with that now, how is that driving? What's some color around that? 
Really, the majority is core PayPal. And then you've got Venmo continuing quarter after quarter after quarter to have incredibly strong net new 
actives. I mean, the virality of Venmo and the network effects on core PayPal are clearly coming into play. You've got 21 million-plus merchants 
accepting PayPal. Consumers see that, want to be a part of it. You've got 246 million-plus consumers using PayPal. Every merchant now wants to 
be a part of that. So you've got a good network effect both on core PayPal and on Venmo. And then I think what's really important, a lot of people 
think about the top of the funnel, but really net new actives is a combination of top of the funnel and bottom. So our churn rate is improving as 
well. Why is the churn rate improving? It's improving because the customer experiences and the breadth of services that consumers are utilizing 
with us and their engagement is increasing. I give a ton of credit to Bill and his team for creating those experiences because I really think we're 
moving towards best-in-class. Whether that's Checkout, whether that'd be P2P experiences, whether that'd be our mobile app, whether it'd be 
choice as well, these are all driving increased engagement and helping at the bottom part of the funnel. One other thing that I mentioned in my 
remarks that should be emphasized is we're finally beginning to see, as we said we would, the impact of all these partnerships beginning to drive 
a noticeable amount of net new actives onto the platform. We saw over 40 bank-led marketing campaigns that encouraged their customers to 
come onto the platform. Why are they doing that? They're doing that because we have a great partnership together. It drives a ton of incremental 
value and volume to our FI partners, and it's clearly a win-win for both of us. And then I talked a little bit about it. Our architecture now and our 
software stack is now more able to be deployed in a more wholesome manner across the world. And so we're able to deliver more and more 
experiences and products to multiple countries. I pointed out India and Japan, but that would be true in countries like France and others as well 
where we're beginning to see an uptick in net new actives globally as well. And so I think we've got still a lot of runway when it comes to net new 
actives. And I believe you'll see another good number posted from us this year. 
Operator 
And our next question comes from the line of James Faucette with Morgan Stanley. 
James Eugene Faucette - Morgan Stanley, Research Division - Executive Director 
I just wanted to ask a quick follow-up question on eBay and whether the -- I guess, a little bit slower transaction volume there was the result of 
their experimentation with other payment methods or if you just think that it was overall slower than what you had thought transaction volumes 
on the platform overall. Hopefully that question makes sense. And then the second, I guess, part of my question is related to Venmo monetization. 
You gave a target for 2019. How should we think about the contribution of that from merchants versus things like Instant Transfer, et cetera? 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
You bet, James. Thanks for those, they're 2 good questions. I'll take the first one around eBay, and Bill will take the second part around Venmo. So 
on the eBay side, we saw this on their conference call as well. Clearly, Marketplaces is slowing down for them. As John mentioned in his remarks, 
we saw 0 growth in TPV on that. And if you look at what they announced on their call for intermediated payments, it's well less than 1% of the GMV 
9
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
that we see presented to us. So it really was not the impact. They clearly are slowing in their Marketplace growth. And as John said, part of this is 
-- for us, is we're able to absorb that because of the breadth of our portfolio and our capabilities. I think that's a really important thing to highlight. 
Because volume was going to be leaving eBay. It's leaving now in a much more straight line, unfortunately, because they're not having the growth 
that I'm sure they hope to drive as well in Marketplace. And so at the end of our operating agreement, which is 18 months from now when they 
finally move into intermediated payments which could be 24, 36 months from now, eBay is going to be a much smaller part of our business than 
even any of us initially thought when we were talking about this originally. And so the fact that we're affirming our annual guidance that we gave 
3 months ago, we feel very comfortable with that both on the top and the bottom line, I think really just highlights just how diversified our platform 
is. We're welcoming new partners like Paymentus. I mean, Paymentus could be one of our top 10 customers with the volumes that they're driving. 
You've got Venmo monetization really accelerating. And I'll let Bill talk about that right now. But I think we're just seeing slower eBay growth. And 
I think we're seeing strength through our platform to offset that, which all in, as we look over the medium and long term, actually is probably a 
positive. 
William J. Ready - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - Executive VP & COO 
Yes. And on Venmo monetization, your question there asking about the composition, if you'd have asked us a few months ago, I think the perception 
was that most of the monetization happening there was around Instant Cash Out. And one of the things that we feel really great about that $200 
million-plus annual revenue run rate that we exited the year at is that, that's actually split about evenly between Instant Cash Out and the 
commerce-related items and other items where we monetize, be they Venmo card, Pay with Venmo and the related services around that. So we 
see each of those, Instant Cash Out, Venmo card and Pay with Venmo, all growing really, really nicely. Dan talked about in his comments some of 
the fantastic brands that have come on to Venmo. We launched with Uber in August and September of 2018. We've really seen that ramp nicely 
as well as other great services like Hulu and others that have come on to Venmo. So we're really seeing the commerce side of Venmo gain traction, 
food ordering services like Grubhub and Seamless, Uber Eats. These are -- many of these are daily, high-frequency type transactions. We see the 
same with the card, where it's really getting into everyday spend. So we really feel great about the broad base set of monetization initiatives across 
Venmo. It is far more than just Instant Cash Out. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Yes. And you're seeing more and more of the user base of Venmo understand that we have these new value-added services. I think the number of 
users went from 24% to 29%, so a nice increase quarter-over-quarter. One other thing I forgot to say is on the eBay side. One thing Bill mentioned 
in his remarks, and I think it's very important, is that we are now working with marketplaces, around the world, that last year alone did $85 billion 
in TPV. Significantly larger than eBay, growing at 41% overall. We expect more partnerships like that to come onto those marketplace solutions. 
And what we're doing there is helping sellers sell in multiple marketplaces using PayPal. This One Touch seller activation allows a seller, say an 
eBay seller, to sign up for a marketplace, literally take all of their information, sign up and start making transactions with almost one touch, one 
click. And so -- and when sellers do that, their sales increase, at least with PayPal, an average of about 3x. So we think we can help small businesses 
through these new capabilities and certainly drive a ton of marketplace growth overall, both with eBay and outside of eBay, especially with these 
kinds of capabilities. 
Operator 
And our next question comes from the line of Heath Terry with Goldman Sachs. 
Heath Patrick Terry - Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Research Division - MD 
So there's obviously been a lot of discussion around the net new actives added in the quarter and over the course of the year, but just wanted to 
dig into that a little bit deeper. Assuming, and feel free to correct me if this is the wrong assumption, but assuming that these net new actives start 
off at a lower level of activity, is there any way to quantify the increase in activity among the existing base of users, kind of like a same-store sales 
number or something? Or alternatively, what TPV will look like when these users reach the level of activity that you see among your average user? 
10
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
William J. Ready - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - Executive VP & COO 
This is Bill. A related element, which I think will maybe get to some of what you're asking is as we look at each of those cohorts that comes on and 
how those cohorts mature, a related question we often get is that as we have accelerated the number of net new actives, do we see any deterioration 
in the quality of those cohorts? Do they mature more slowly? Are they less active? And one of the great things is that even as we have significantly 
increased the number of net new actives coming onto the platform each quarter, each new cohort, we see stronger than the last in terms of how 
they engage and how they mature over time. So while we don't break out the maturation to the level of detail you're asking about, even as we've 
gotten to larger and larger cohorts, we see each new cohort being stronger than the cohorts from years past, which is part of why you also see 
engagement. Oftentimes, a large influx of net new actives will have a dilutive effect on engagement, you still see us having really strong engagement 
growth even as we bring those on largely because of the quality of the cohorts, rather than diminishing as you get to larger cohorts, is actually 
improving because we're getting those larger cohorts through an expanded set of products and user engagement with more and more products 
over time. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Your question is a good one. We won't do the math for you, but obviously, when you bring on, call it, almost 14 million net new actives in the 
quarter, the number of transactions that they've done is very small, right? Because you brought them on throughout the quarter. So it's a dilutive 
effect to the growth of your overall base engagement scores. So it's obviously higher than the numbers that we report because of that -- just 
because of that math around that. And so that's why we're so pleased to show kind of a steady increase in engagement. So we had 9% last quarter, 
I believe, 9% this quarter. And so even as you're seeing that substantial increase, you're seeing a steadying amount. As that normalizes, you'll start 
to see that creep up, that percent engagement. 
Operator 
And our next question comes from the line of Lisa Ellis with MoffettNathanson. 
Lisa Ann Dejong Ellis - MoffettNathanson LLC - Partner 
Bill -- I'll direct this one to Bill. Because you commented in your prepared remarks around the role that PayPal is playing with these other marketplaces. 
I wanted to ask specifically about some of the e-com enablement players, players like Shopify and Wix that are starting to make some noise around 
creeping into payments. How do you think about the role of PayPal vis-à-vis those players? I mean, would those be potential acquisition candidates? 
Or are they more like -- it would make more sense to partner? Or are they actually more like frenemies? How do you think about that group? 
William J. Ready - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - Executive VP & COO 
We partner with a wide range of these e-commerce enablement players. And even as they are bundling payments into their offering, oftentimes 
we are working closely with them to help make that happen. And PayPal-branded payments would be a very meaningful part of that for many of 
those players given that they cater to small businesses. And small businesses really rely upon the trust that PayPal brings for the buyer or our 
conversion differences that already outshine competitors across the industry in a small business context particularly on these types of platforms, 
the relative conversion rate of PayPal versus something else stands even farther apart. So we tend to have really strong partnerships there. And I 
think that really ties into what we were talking about with our efforts to get small businesses to all the best forums to sell. I think we've been talking 
a lot about the deceleration of eBay. One of the things that has happened is that over the last decade, small businesses that would have had only 
1 or a couple places to sell a decade ago, now have many, many places to sell. And PayPal is connecting those small businesses to the many places 
they sell. Some of those might be e-commerce enablement platforms like some of the ones you mentioned. Some of that may be other marketplaces. 
Some of that may be more vertical-specific offerings. But across each of those, we're helping to connect those small businesses to all the very best 
places to sell, which is why when we talk about our marketplace and partners business outside of eBay, that's already $85 billion-plus in volume, 
much larger than eBay overall and growing at 40%-plus year on year. So as these small businesses are finding lots of other great places to sell like 
11
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
e-commerce enablement platforms or rapid growth marketplaces, we tend to be a preferred provider to connect those small businesses to those 
platforms. 
Lisa Ann Dejong Ellis - MoffettNathanson LLC - Partner 
Terrific. And do they leverage PayPal's services like your -- like working capital services or the invoicing capabilities? Like do those actually get -- 
do you sort of, like, deliver those directly to the merchants? Or does that actually also work through those platforms? Would they look to enable 
those capabilities on their platforms? 
William J. Ready - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - Executive VP & COO 
It really can be both. One of the things you see, oftentimes, those merchants are coming to us directly for those because the trend that you see is 
that merchants are not choosing one platform to sell in. They are choosing many to sell in, and then PayPal becomes the aggregation point for 
them to connect to each of those platforms. And so like with One Touch seller sign-up, as they're discovering more and more new platforms out 
there, one of the most difficult things for that small business is the sign-up and vetting process. The marketplace has to figure out is that business 
trustworthy or not? Are they fraudulent? And we're able to alleviate those pain points, not only for the seller to sign up, but also for the marketplace 
to know that they're bringing on a trustworthy seller to their platform. So we become an aggregation point for that small business, and some of 
those services, we're able to partner with other marketplaces or e-commerce enablement platforms. Some of those, we provide directly to the 
merchant since we're an aggregation point for them across many of those marketplaces and digital channels. 
Operator 
And our last question comes from the line of George Mihalos with Cowen. 
Georgios Mihalos - Cowen and Company, LLC, Research Division - MD & Senior Research Analyst 
Just wanted to ask as a point of clarification, John, if we look at the guide for next year, on the surface, you're sort of reiterating it. But it appears 
you're absorbing, say, another point or so hit from lower eBay growth, and then added to that, the FX. So I'm just curious, is that the right way to 
think about it, that the core business outside of that is accelerating and if there's anything else in there? And then just secondly, as we think of 
Venmo at this sort of $200 million-plus run rate, is there anything you can say about the profitability of the business of the segment here? Is that 
in the black right now with this run rate? 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
Sure, George. I'm going to take your second question first and then go back to the question before that. No, Venmo is not in the black yet, and I 
don't want to be specific with profitability of any one part of our business. That's not something we do. But I can give you some color in terms of 
how we think about this internally. Prior to some of the great progress that we've made in monetizing Venmo this year, we effectively were providing 
a service that we weren't monetizing in any way. And so the losses were growing as volume grew. And the first priority for us was to stop that rate 
of loss from growing, and we've done that. The next phase for us is to get Venmo to breakeven. And that's not something that's going to happen 
in the next quarter or 2, but it's -- there's line of sight to that with what we're doing. And then the third phase is to really put our foot on the pedal 
and see the same type of profitability in this platform, or more perhaps, that we do with PayPal and some of our other services, so that's where we 
are with that right now. But no, it's not in the black today. With respect to 2019 and the guide, you're right. We are seeing really strong performance 
with the core business. We also have -- we've launched new products that are -- pretty early on, yes, and partnerships. And we're pretty excited 
about the promise that those hold. And so just from a revenue side and a volume growth side, there's a lot of opportunity there. I'll also, because 
I'm the CFO, I'd be remiss not to mention what's being done on the expense side. The teams across the board, our commercial teams, Bill's teams 
and even the more staff group functions are doing a really good job of growing but not having our costs grow in line with that volume. And again, 
that goes back to an effort that the broad team did -- began 18 to 24 months ago where we talked about rewiring our business to allow us to grow 
12
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
JANUARY 30, 2019 / 10:00PM, PYPL - Q4 2018 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
at a very low marginal cost, and this is a complete team effort. There's not necessarily one area that I can point to. This is across every aspect of our 
company. And so with that, we hope to have another year like we did in 2018, where you're seeing significant earnings per share growth and 
significant revenue growth and continuing to create a lot of shareholder value for our investors. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Great. Thanks again, everybody, for joining us. We appreciate your time, and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon. Thanks again. 
Operator 
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This does conclude the program, and you may all disconnect. Everyone, 
have a great afternoon. 
D I S C L A I M E R 
Thomson Reuters reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon 
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more 
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the 
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, 
THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON REUTERS OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME 
ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE 
COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 
©2019, Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
12258328-2019-02-01T00:15:20.930
13
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.