Client Id: 77
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS 
EDITED TRANSCRIPT
PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
EVENT DATE/TIME: OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM GMT
OVERVIEW:
Co. reported 3Q19 revenues of $4.38b and non-GAAP EPS of $0.61. Expects full-year 
2019 revenues to be $17.70-17.76b and non-GAAP EPS to be $3.06-3.08. Expects 
4Q19 revenues to be $4.89-4.95b and non-GAAP EPS to be $0.81-0.83.
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
C O R P O R A T E P A R T I C I P A N T S
Daniel H. Schulman PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Gabrielle Rabinovitch PayPal Holdings, Inc. - VP, IR 
John D. Rainey PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
C O N F E R E N C E C A L L P A R T I C I P A N T S
Bryan Connell Keane Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division - Research Analyst 
Darrin David Peller Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Analyst 
David Mark Togut Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division - Senior MD 
Heath Patrick Terry Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Research Division - MD 
Jason Alan Kupferberg BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - MD in US Equity Research & Senior Analyst 
Lisa Ann Dejong Ellis MoffettNathanson LLC - Partner 
Tien-Tsin Huang JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division - Senior Analyst 
P R E S E N T A T I O N
Operator 
Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to PayPal's Third Quarter 2019 Earnings Conference Call. (Operator Instructions) Please be advised 
that today's conference is being recorded. (Operator Instructions) 
I would now like to introduce your host for today's call, Ms. Gabrielle Rabinovitch, Head of Investor Relations. Please go ahead. 
Gabrielle Rabinovitch - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - VP, IR 
Thank you, Andrew. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. Welcome to PayPal Holdings' Earnings Conference Call for Third Quarter 2019. 
Joining me today on the call are Dan Schulman, our President and CEO; and John Rainey, our Chief Financial Officer and EVP Global Customer 
Operations. We're providing a slide presentation to accompany our commentary. This conference call is also being webcast, and both the presentation 
and call are available through the Investor Relations section of our website. 
We will discuss some non-GAAP measures in talking about our company's performance. You can find the reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures 
to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the presentation accompanying this call. 
In addition, management will make forward-looking statements that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve 
risks and uncertainties. These statements include our guidance for the fourth quarter and full year 2019, our preliminary outlook for 2020, our 
medium-term outlook, and the impact of our acquisitions. Our actual results may differ materially from these statements. 
You can find more information about risks, uncertainties and other factors that could affect our results in our most recent annual report on Form 
10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC and available on the Investor Relations section of our website. You should not rely on 
any forward-looking statements. 
All information in this presentation is as of today's date, October 23, 2019. We expressly disclaim any obligation to update the information. 
2
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
With that, let me turn the call over to Dan. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Thank you, Gabrielle, and thanks, everyone, for joining us on today's call. I'm pleased to report that PayPal had a very strong quarter across all of 
our key metrics. 
Revenues grew by 19% on an FX-neutral and spot basis to $4.38 billion. Our revenue growth was driven by strong transaction and TPV volumes. 
For the first time ever, we processed over 1 billion transactions per month in a quarter, up 25% year-over-year to 3.1 billion transactions. TPV growth 
accelerated 80 basis points from last quarter and was up 27% on an FX-neutral basis to $179 billion. TPV, excluding eBay, grew by 31%, up 240 
basis points from Q3 2018. eBay TPV declined by 3% and now represents just 8% of our total TPV, down approximately 300 basis points from Q3 
last year. 
As of now our best estimate is that eBay will be approximately 6% of our total TPV at the end of the operating agreement in July 2020. Excluding 
unrealized losses associated discreetly with our investments in MercadoLibre and Uber, we delivered a very strong $0.79 of non-GAAP EPS as 
compared to our guidance on a similar basis of $0.69 to $0.71. 
Excluding the mark-to-market changes in our strategic investment portfolio, our non-GAAP EPS grew 31% driven by a year-over-year expansion 
of more than 200 basis points in our non-GAAP operating margin to 23.4%. I'm very pleased with the leverage of our operating model and the 
continued expansion of our operating margins. This leverage drove our largest ever quarterly EPS overperformance versus our expectations and 
provides us with increased confidence in our medium-term guidance of 20% EPS growth compounded annually. 
I'm also very pleased to report strong growth in both net new actives and engagement. We added 9.8 million net new actives in the quarter, a 
record number for any previous Q3. We now have 295 million active accounts on our platform, up 16% year-over-year, including over 23 million 
merchants. We anticipate ending the year at approximately 304 million active accounts, above our stated target of 300 million. 
Engagement continues to consistently increase, growing by 9% to almost 40 transactions per active account. Mobile is a major driver of our growth, 
with One Touch at 172 million consumers and 13.8 million merchants. We're quite focused on growing our value proposition beyond checkout as 
our consumers look for more reasons to use PayPal as part of their everyday financial lives. 
I'm quite pleased by the efforts of the PayPal team this quarter, and I'm encouraged by the strength of our business fundamentals. We are focused 
on executing against our strategic priorities. We've made significant progress in driving forward our pricing initiatives as well as our product 
integration with Paymentus, and we now anticipate live, full stack integration by year-end. 
Venmo continues to be an incredibly powerful platform for engaging consumers. We processed more than 27 billion in volume for the quarter, 
growing 64%. That's almost $300 million in payments per day and an annual run rate that now exceeds $100 billion. The Venmo team has made 
tremendous strides in enhancing the use cases of Venmo, including a recently signed deal with Synchrony to provide a Venmo credit card. All of 
this is producing very strong monetization results. We ended Q3 with Venmo just shy of a $400 million annual revenue run rate. 
Last year, we acquired Hyperwallet, knowing that payouts are a powerful tool for fueling engagement as retailers and marketplaces look for new 
ways to interact with their customers. One year later, I'm pleased to report that our payouts capabilities are gaining strong traction among leading 
brands. 
In the quarter, Travelers Insurance announced customers can now receive insurance-claimed payments via PayPal. PepsiCo launched its first-ever 
cashback loyalty program powered by Venmo and PayPal. Lime, the global scooter rental platform, selected PayPal to facilitate payouts through 
its network of freelancers. And Epic Games is now using our capabilities for competitive Fortnite players to expedite their prize payout process. 
This month, we added Venmo as a payout option, providing merchants with another powerful way to reach Venmo's highly engaged user base. 
3
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
Credit continues to be another strong driver of engagement on our platform. This quarter, we launched new consumer installment plans in the 
United States and Germany, which allow PayPal customers to pay for their purchases with easy to understand monthly payments. This capability 
is already leading to incremental sales for our merchants. And we signed a long-term strategic partnership agreement with Citi Australia to develop 
consumer credit products for PayPal's customers in Australia. 
We continue to gain strong adoption among merchants around the world in daily spend categories. In the quarter, we further expanded our 
relationship with Walmart, launching PayPal Checkout as the sole payment solution for its online grocery business in Mexico. In Japan, PayPal is 
one of the official partners for the Japanese government's initiative to promote cashless payments throughout the country. 
We made significant strides this quarter with multiple strategic partners to create better experiences for our shared customers. With American 
Express, we've launched a feature where Amex cardmembers can split a purchase in the Amex app via PayPal or Venmo. We now offer account 
linking on mobile devices with Capital One and PNC Bank in the United States. We launched instant transfer to bank accounts for Venmo customers 
through our partnership with JPMorgan Chase, and we launched cashback programs with both Chase and Discover. 
I'm pleased that we are beginning to see increasing traction with the results of our pay-with-rewards initiative. To date, 6 million consumers are 
enabled to use eligible rewards points to pay for a purchase, and those customers who are using their rewards currency currently do so nearly 10% 
of the time, and we are seeing increased engagement and spend as a result. 
In September, we announced that the People's Bank of China has approved our acquisition of a 70% equity interest in GoPay, a licensed provider 
of online payment services. We are honored to become the first non-Chinese payments company to be licensed to provide online payment services 
in China. This is a very significant development for us and has the potential to dramatically expand our total addressable market and our long-term 
growth prospects. 
The license enables us to expand upon our relationships with existing partners like China UnionPay and AliExpress, and forge new partnerships 
with China's financial institutions and technology platforms, allowing us to provide a comprehensive set of differentiated payment solutions to 
businesses and consumers in China and globally. 
Our initial focus will be on providing cross-border payment solutions to China's merchants and consumers, linking China's commerce ecosystem 
to PayPal's vast two-sided network. The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2019 and is subject to customary closing conditions. 
We will share much more about our plans early next year, but suffice it to say, we are very excited about our growth opportunities as a result of 
this landmark agreement. 
Q3 was an important quarter for us, and our results demonstrate the strength of our expanding two-sided network. More importantly, I am optimistic 
about the opportunities in front of us and our ability to shape the financial services landscape. I've been leading the PayPal team for the past 5 
years, and I've never seen it more united, focused and excited about our future. We think the next 5 years will be as defining and value-creating as 
the past 5. 
And with that, let me turn the call over to John. 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
Thanks, Dan. I want to start off by thanking our customers, partners and global team for helping us deliver a great quarter. The strong results we're 
reporting today demonstrates the continued execution of our strategy to deliver long-term, sustainable growth. 
Our volume growth accelerated to 27%. Our revenue grew 19%. We delivered more than 200 basis points of operating margin expansion on both 
the GAAP and the non-GAAP basis. And we realized operating leverage across each of our nontransaction-related expenses. 
Excluding the effect of unrealized losses from our strategic investment portfolio, which I will discuss later, non-GAAP EPS grew 31%. Our Q3 
performance shows the consistent strength of our platform and the scalability of our business. Revenue in the third quarter increased 19% on both 
4
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
the spot and currency-neutral basis to $4.38 billion. Hyperwallet and iZettle contributed approximately 1.9 points to revenue growth. Versus the 
third quarter of 2018, U.S. revenue grew 19% and international revenue grew 20% on a currency-neutral basis. On a spot basis, transaction revenue 
grew 18%, accelerating 1 point from last year in the second quarter this year. Revenue from other value-added services grew 24%. 
In the third quarter, transaction take rate was 2.21% and total take rate was 2.45%. Compared to Q3 2018, this was a decline of 12 basis points and 
13 basis points, respectively. Continued strength in P2P contributed to approximately half of the decline for both transaction and total take rate. 
The performance of eBay's Marketplaces business and the headwinds from the stronger dollar also contributed to the reduction in take rate. $70 
million of revenue from hedge gains benefited both transaction take rate and total take rate by approximately 3 basis points. 
Volume-based expenses increased 23% in the third quarter to $2 billion. Transaction expense was 95 basis points as the rate of TPV, improving 1 
basis point from Q3 2018. Transaction loss was 14 basis points as a rate of TPV, an improvement of 4 basis points from Q3 2018 and flat to last 
quarter. 
This level of transaction loss as a rate of TPV matched the lowest we've ever achieved, and we realized this result while accelerating TPV growth. 
This reduction in transaction loss was driven by continued improvements in our risk management capabilities. 
Loan losses were 5 basis points as a rate of TPV, which represents an increase of 2 basis points from Q3 last year. This increase was due primarily 
to growth in both our merchant and international consumer loan portfolios. Transaction margin dollars grew 16% to $2.3 billion in the third quarter. 
Transaction margin as a rate was 53.4%, a decline of approximately 150 basis points versus Q3 '18. 
Non transaction-related expenses grew 6% versus last year. Normalizing for costs related to our 2018 acquisitions, these expenses grew 1.9% or 
$0.04 for every dollar increase in revenue. This performance highlights the scalability of our model, our operating discipline and our ability to grow 
at a low marginal cost. 
On a non-GAAP basis, operating income in the third quarter grew 30% and exceeded $1 billion for the first time. In addition, our operating margin 
expanded more than 200 basis points from Q3 2018. We delivered leverage across each of our non transaction-related expenses. 
Adjusting for 2018 acquisitions, operating income grew 31%, and our operating margin expanded 250 basis points in the quarter. Other income 
in the quarter declined by $256 million relative to Q3 2018, primarily due to a $228 million net unrealized loss on our strategic investment portfolio. 
On a per share basis, these unrealized losses negatively affected our results by approximately $0.15 after tax. 
When we guided Q3 '19 EPS in July, we included an expected benefit of $0.03 related to a funding round for Toss, a privately-held company in 
which we have an equity investment. A few weeks later, this funding round closed, and as expected, we recognized a $0.03 per share benefit to 
GAAP and non-GAAP EPS. 
In addition, in the quarter, our strategic equity investments in Uber and MercadoLibre resulted in an unrealized loss of approximately $0.18 per 
share. Consistent with the plans we discussed in April on our first quarter earnings call, we disclosed the expected effect of these net unrealized 
losses for the third quarter in our 8-K released on October 8. 
Since January 2018, certain equity investments are required to be revalued based on observable price movements. This new standard had a relatively 
minor impact on our results in 2018. This year, however, our strategic investments in MercadoLibre and Uber have created more earnings volatility. 
Starting in 2020, we will update our non-GAAP methodology to exclude the impact of these gains and losses on our strategic investments, as we 
believe this will provide a better understanding of our operating performance and a more meaningful comparison of our results between periods. 
In the third quarter, our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 11.1% versus 16.4% last year. Excluding the impact of unrealized losses from our strategic 
investment portfolio, our tax rate would have been 13.5%. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate also benefited from a favorable geographic mix of 
5
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
pretax income. Non-GAAP EPS for the third quarter grew 5% to $0.61. Adjusting for unrealized losses of $0.15 this year, non-GAAP EPS grew 31% 
in the quarter. 
We ended the quarter with cash, cash equivalents and investments of $13.2 billion. In addition, we generated $923 million of free cash flow or 
approximately $0.21 of free cash flow for every dollar of revenue. Normalizing for the proceeds we received from selling our U.S. consumer credit 
receivables portfolio last year, free cash flow grew 20%. 
During the quarter, we returned $350 million to shareholders through share repurchases. In addition, in Q3, we also accessed the public debt 
markets for the first time, raising $5 billion in gross proceeds. The senior fixed rate notes are tranched in 3-, 5-, 7- and 10-year terms. The average 
life of this debt is 6.6 years, with a weighted average interest rate of 2.56%. We used a portion of the proceeds to repay our outstanding borrowings 
on our 364-day credit facility and plan to use the remainder of the proceeds consistent with our capital allocation priorities. 
I'd now like to discuss our guidance for the fourth quarter of 2019 and the full year as well as our preliminary thoughts for 2020. For the fourth 
quarter, we expect revenue in the range of $4.89 billion to $4.95 billion or 17% to 18% growth on a currency-neutral basis. In the fourth quarter 
for the first time, we're lapping the acquisitions of both iZettle and Hyperwallet. Last year, as we disclosed when we reported Q4 '18 results, these 
acquisitions contributed approximately 1.5 points of growth. Relative to when we provided guidance in July, the U.S. dollar strengthened. We 
estimate this headwind to be approximately $30 million in the fourth quarter. 
Both our integration with Paymentus and the pricing initiatives that we discussed last quarter are on track, and we expect to be substantially 
complete by the early part of next year. For Q4, we expect non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $0.81 to $0.83, representing 18% to 
21% growth. Our guidance includes no expectation of any gains or losses on our strategic investment portfolio. As a result, for the full year, we 
now expect revenue to be in the range of $17.70 billion to $17.76 billion or approximately 15% growth on a currency-neutral basis. 
Normalizing for the sale of the U.S. consumer credit receivables portfolio, the implied revenue growth rate would be approximately 18.5% for the 
full year. We now expect our non-GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $3.06 to $3.08, representing 26% to 27% growth. Excluding the 
net unrealized gains year-to-date of $0.11 from our strategic investment portfolio, this guidance implies non-GAAP earnings growth of 25% to 26% 
for the year, which represents a raise in our EPS outlook. In addition, given the strong free cash flow we generated year-to-date, we now expect 
free cash flow for the full year to be approximately $3.5 billion. 
I'd now like to provide an initial framework for how we're thinking about 2020. As a reminder, our medium-term outlook calls for 17% to 18% 
revenue growth on a currency-neutral basis compounded annually, which includes approximately 1.5 points of revenue growth each year on 
average from acquisitions. We're very pleased with the strength of our business and expect our core trends to continue. 
Our current expectation is that revenue will grow 17% organically on a currency-neutral basis next year, without the effect of any acquisitions. 
2020 also has 2 dynamics I'd like to discuss. First, our operating agreement with eBay expires in July, and we estimate that this transition will impact 
revenue growth by approximately 1 point next year. 
Second, we will be lapping the contributions to revenue in 2019 from our acquisitions of Hyperwallet and iZettle, which we expect to be an additional 
point of headwind. Together, these factors pressure revenue growth by approximately 2 points in 2020. Even with this, the strength of our core 
business provides us with the ability to grow revenue in the range contemplated in our medium-term guidance. 
Our initial 2020 framework also calls for at least 50 basis points of operating margin expansion. Next year, we're accelerating our investment in 
several key initiatives to drive long-term growth and strengthen our platform. At the same time, our ongoing focus on efficiency and natural 
leverage opportunities will allow us to sustainably deliver operating margin expansion. 
We expect a portion of this operating leverage to be offset by below-the-line items, including additional interest expense on a recent debt issuance 
and lower interest income earned on corporate cash. As a result, our initial outlook is for approximately 17% to 18% growth on non-GAAP EPS in 
2020. 
6
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
It is important to note we are confident that we will grow non-GAAP EPS by approximately 20% compounded annually over the medium term, 
consistent with our previous guidance. The strength, diversification and durability of our business give us confidence in our medium-term outlook. 
In conclusion, our third quarter results demonstrate our ability to deliver strong revenue and earnings growth and generate significant free cash 
flow, while advancing our strategic priorities. Our scale affords us continued leverage opportunities. We are focused on creating value for our 
customers and shareholders and strengthening our position as the world's leading digital payments platform. 
With that, I'll turn it over to the operator for questions. Thank you. 
Q U E S T I O N S A N D A N S W E R S
Operator 
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Tien-Tsin Huang with JPMorgan. 
Tien-Tsin Huang - JP Morgan Chase & Co, Research Division - Senior Analyst 
Nice acceleration here, especially in the U.S. Looks like revenue up 19%. So I was curious, I know that you have eBay drag. You have some pricing 
that's coming up here in the fourth quarter. So maybe can you help us unpack the drivers this quarter for the 19% or overall with the acceleration? 
Just curious how sustainable this is, given some of the puts and takes that we're all expecting here. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Maybe I'll start off with that, and then turn it over to John. We're quite pleased with the revenue growth that we had in the third quarter and really 
what we expect in fourth quarter and going into 2020. Say there are a couple of things, and you're right, these are before pricing initiatives really 
come to play as well as our full integration with Paymentus. 
Our net new actives and our engagement are really beginning to kick in and start to drive incremental growth in our revenues. We had records in 
net new actives for the third quarter, almost 10 million. You've got engagement going up again by another 9% to 40x a year. Just those couple of things 
are really starting to put more and more acceleration in. 
And what we're beginning to see right now is that sales into our back book and a lot of sales into the front book are coming in much more strongly 
than we've ever had before. We're just winning more business right now. There's a bit of a network effect going on. We have almost 300 million 
active accounts now. Merchants understand the scale we have. They want to be a part of that. 
We do start to see right now the beginnings of our capabilities of selling as a platform provider and not just a product. So as I mentioned with 
payouts in my earnings script, we're seeing that really start to take hold. We're really starting to see a lot more full stack processing start to take 
hold. 
And so we're having a lot more incremental products sales, both in the back book as well as in the front book, including just basic things like 
presentment of the PayPal button where it's presented. Given the scale we have now, merchants are putting as into more and more prime positions 
of presentment. 
Partnerships are beginning to kick in right now. We now have 9 out of the top 10 U.S. banks working with us. The marketplaces outside of eBay, 
they have over $100 billion of TPV right now growing at 36% with us. And so we're really beginning to see a bend in the curve in our core organic 
PayPal growth, and that is really encouraging for us. 
7
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
And then, of course, you have Venmo rapidly growing its monetization efforts right now. We're really pleased with that. I think what we're equally 
as pleased with is we see a lot of good runway in front of Venmo as well. 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
I would just add, as Dan suggested, we're seeing good trends across many aspects of our business. I think it's important to remember, for the first 
part of this year, at least the first 3 quarters, we've had some more difficult comps with things like cross-border with some currency effects and 
things like that. And so we are sort of lapping some of the beginning impacts of that, not that I think the currency environment seems to be getting 
much improved from where it was. 
But with respect to the couple of things that you alluded to around Paymentus and pricing, we are live with both of those. There is a needed ramp 
on each of them. So we launched in 3 countries on the pricing initiative that we've referred to previously, not to overly fixate on that because we 
make pricing changes all the time, but I know there was some questions about that given our last call. 
In Paymentus, we're excited about the progress that we're making there. We're ramping up in the fourth quarter. And as I noted in my remarks, we 
expect to be complete with each of those by the early part of next year. 
Operator 
And our next question comes from the line of Bryan Keane with Deutsche Bank. 
Bryan Connell Keane - Deutsche Bank AG, Research Division - Research Analyst 
Solid results here. I wanted to ask about the purpose of the additional debt issuance back in September. Can we see more aggressive stock buybacks 
or more M&A? I see the GoPay acquisition, and I'm also wondering if we'll see more acquisitions in Asia or elsewhere. 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
Thanks, Bryan. Good to speak with you. I'd say the debt issuance was perhaps twofold. One, it was opportunistic. And two, it gives us more flexibility. 
Opportunistic in the sense that it's just it was a good time to tap into the debt markets. 
I talked about the various tranches of our debt, and we literally secured 10-year debt at less than 3%. And so that's a very attractive rate for us, and 
we've got ample opportunities to allocate that capital. And it does give us more flexibility given our strategic initiatives. But there's not -- don't 
read into that, that there's a change in how we're thinking about capital allocation. So as a reminder, we said when we provided our medium-term 
guidance, that we expect over that time frame of approximately 5 years, that we would spend 40% to 45% of our free cash flow to buy back stock, 
and that we would spend between $1 billion and $3 billion in M&A activity. 
Now that's not necessarily each year, but that's on average over that period of time. This allows us the flexibility to do that. And importantly, as you 
think about the cash-generating ability of our business, we'll generate $3.5 billion of free cash flow this year, but that comes sort of ratably throughout 
the year. Going and tapping into the debt markets at this point in time gives us the opportunity to access that cash on our timing versus when 
we're earning that cash throughout the year. 
So no change to our plans. We still believe that effective capital allocation supports and contributes to long-term value creation, and this was really 
just an opportunity to tap into the debt markets to get to a more optimal capital structure as we've suggested for some time. That gives us more 
flexibility. 
8
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Maybe I can just quick add on to John's great answer there. I think on the M&A front, we obviously have quite a strong balance sheet right now, 
some $13 billion of cash, and as John mentioned, generating about $3.5 billion of free cash flow this year. 
We have stated that we will be acquisitive. We look at some 200 to 300 companies every quarter. We will, over time and on average, as John 
mentioned, spend somewhere between $1 billion and $3 billion. We anticipate on acquisitions. Last year was a light year, but you should expect 
us to be acquisitive. Those acquisitions would, obviously, any revenues that come from it would be additive to our 2020 plans. We're at 17% organic 
[revenue growth]. Anything we would do would be on top of that. 
And we will continue to look at capabilities that would improve things like consumer engagement. We would look at geographic expansion 
opportunities. GoPay would be a good example of that. Scale and scope with different partners. MELI and Uber would be good examples of that. 
And so no change in our capital allocation, but you should expect us to use our balance sheet in areas that would complement our internal 
development efforts and allow us to continue to seize growth opportunities where we see them. 
Operator 
And our next question comes from the line of Jason Kupferberg with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. 
Jason Alan Kupferberg - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division - MD in US Equity Research & Senior Analyst 
Good numbers here. I just had a question and a clarification on 2020. The question is on the eBay front. So only a 1% revenue headwind for next 
year, certainly less than the investment community had feared. So I'm just wondering, is this largely a timing issue in terms of how much of the 
eBay take rate comes down in 2020 specifically as well as the pace at which you expect unbranded volume to roll off? 
And then just a quick clarification is on the EPS growth for next year, the 17% to 18%. Is that off the new $3.06 to $3.08 number in '19? Or is the 
base $2.95 to $2.97, excluding the $0.11 of year-to-date mark-to-market gain? 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
Hey, Jason. So on eBay, there's a couple of dynamics going on there. Our expectation right now is that eBay is about fully ramped through the 10% 
that they're allowed in each of the 2 entities that were -- they're doing managed payments, which are Germany and the U.S. So going to the back 
half of next year, we would expect that those would ramp much more appreciably as they're already live in those markets. 
There's a more -- or our expectation, anyway, is that there is a more metered ramp for when they launch in some of these other geographies, which 
is consistent with kind of what we've seen in the first 2 geographies where they've launched. 
I think also related to that is our expectation about what share of checkout we retain. And based upon what we've seen in both Germany and the 
U.S., it's consistent to what we said back in January of 2018 around our expectations there. So each of those elements influences our expectation 
around eBay. But obviously, that's an estimate at this point in time, and that can change. We will certainly let you know if something does. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
John, before you get to that part, let me, maybe, expand a little bit on eBay. So Jason, I think obviously, there's going to be an important strategic 
partner with us for a long time to come but it's obviously shrinking in terms of its overall volumes and its impact on our financials. It's been 3 quarters 
in a row where they've had negative TPV growth. They're negative 3%. Outside of that, we're growing at 31% in our TPV, and we think at the end 
of the OA, they're going to be down to about 6% of our overall TPV volumes. 
9
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
And if you think about it, like when we initially split from eBay, TPV -- their percentage of TPV was around 20%. Now it's dropped down to about 
8%. If you look at their revenues, revenues have dropped in half as a percent overall. And so I think it's really worth noting that while all of that has 
been happening, our revenues have been growing on average, call it 18% to 20%. During that time frame, our margins have been going up. And 
so they're obviously a much smaller part of PayPal than we expected when we were first thinking about the OA. And therefore, the transition at 
the end of the OA is going to be much less of an impact, much more manageable. And we think that 1% of revenue growth impact is probably a 
pretty reasonable expectation. 
I'd say nothing in their intermediated payouts right now gives me any incremental cause for concern. I mean, maybe even the opposite, they need 
regulatory approvals in all of the countries that they're going to roll out into. There's going to be a long tail, that that's going to be hard to get to. 
China's obviously going to be an interesting discussion item on that. Merchants are increasingly beginning to sell on multiple platforms right now, 
and they're using PayPal One Touch activation to do that and so they're quite tied into PayPal. And we are seeing the PayPal's share of checkout 
on intermediated payments rising significantly. 
And so you put all those into place along with the growth that we're seeing in other marketplaces and our ability to start to work with some 
marketplaces that we weren't able to work with before, and we think this is going to be a very manageable transition, and we hope to be close 
partners with eBay as we go through that. 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
Jason, and to address your second question, which I probably should have anticipated given the noise that we've had in some of these mark-to-market 
adjustments. But the earnings growth that we talked about of 17% to 18% in 2020 is on a similar base in 2019. So it excludes the mark-to-market 
adjustments in 2019. Does that answer your question? 
Operator 
And our next question comes from the line of Darrin Peller with Wolfe Research. 
Darrin David Peller - Wolfe Research, LLC - MD & Senior Analyst 
Your margin came in materially above our estimate. It looks like operating leverage on sales and marketing in G&A and I guess better losses, I know, 
I think, John, you mentioned, were a lot more pronounced. What are your thoughts on what's allowing that kind of margin uptick now versus 
before? And just when considering, I guess, the pricing changes, the partial offset of eBay mid-year in our integrations? Can you just touch on 
sustainability, and maybe how the 50 bps expected in 2020 would have looked if not for eBay? 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
Sure, Darrin. So a couple of things. One, as we look at the outperformance in the quarter, we provide a range of estimates around revenue and 
earnings, and we came in at the higher end of that range that we expected. So the revenue outperformance is one of the bigger drivers within the 
quarter for how we performed. 
But as you noted, we also performed very well on the expense side. I think it's -- I'll caution you about assuming that, that level of sales and marketing 
is a run rate basis. There are a number of initiatives going on there as we go to market in a different way that have affected not quarter. And so 
that's just kind of a side point. 
But the general point around operating margin leverage and what we can do there, this is a very sustainable initiative for us. And you'll remember, 
Darrin, a couple of years ago when we first started this -- the work in this area, there was some question about was this a onetime cost takeout? Or 
10
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
was this really sustainable? I hope that we're beginning to relay the concerns around people about the sustainability of that. This is perhaps the 
best performance that we've ever seen in any particular quarter, growing our organic costs, non transaction-related costs at 1.9%. 
And this is really just -- well, if you remember, I described it at the time as we were replumbing our business or rewiring our business to be able to 
grow at a very low marginal cost. And it's literally in every aspect of the business. But I'll give you one example that maybe will really give you a 
flavor of how these are coming about. 
So we obviously have a significant number of calls that come in each month in our call center, 5 million on average per month. And we aspire to 
be able to address each of those issues that our customers have and to be on the phone with or not have them have to wait on the phone. But 
we're not perfect. And if you go back to last December, we had 33,000 calls that a customer had to wait over 45 minutes. 
While I looked right before I came in here today, and in the month of October, we have 526 calls. Now that's a dramatic improvement, but what's 
noteworthy about that is we achieved that without adding a single human being to address that problem. Those were always used around schedule 
efficiency, better routing when someone goes into the IVR, things like that, that just enables us to provide a better customer experience, but the 
same time, lower our cost. And in the scheme of 5 million calls a month, 33,000 is maybe not a lot, but each of those customers has an experience, 
and that impacts whether they use us again, whether they churn in the future. And so it's things like that, that drive dramatic improvements in our 
business, both on the cost line, but also what it can do for the customer experience as well. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
I'll add a couple of things to that, Darrin, that I think are really important. First of all, things that you don't see that are really important to us are 
things like what are we doing with developer tool sets, our development platform, which makes our engineers so much more productive before 
we would have to hire a lot, with people that just couldn't get their code through. And now we have tool sets in an environment that is much more 
efficient, maybe 2x the efficiency that we had before. 
Things like losses. As we grow bigger and our transaction volume becomes larger, our ability to do machine learning on that, combined with the 
acquisition we did of Simility, those losses now are at a lower level that we think continues as well and probably may even improve as we get larger. 
And finally, I would just say Venmo. Venmo used to have more and more money than we would have to put into Venmo each year as a group. And 
it is now, instead of a drain on our margin structure, a help on our margin structure as we go forward, and I would expect that to continue to happen. 
And so all in, I think we feel pretty good about the leverage of the model, and that's why we have such strong confidence around that 20% 
compounding annually EPS number. 
Operator 
Our next question comes from the line of David Togut with Evercore. 
David Mark Togut - Evercore ISI Institutional Equities, Research Division - Senior MD 
Could you give us sort of a deeper dive or status update on some of the delayed new pricing initiatives and new product integrations with partners 
that you called out on the second quarter earnings call? And to the extent any of those impacts were embedded in the 2020 guidance, it would 
be helpful to have insight. 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
Sure, David. This is John. I'll address that. So when we announced the delay in those initiatives initially on the last call, I think it's fair to say that we 
probably aired on the side of conservatism as we thought about the back half of the year, and that they are both, specifically the Paymentus initiative 
11
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
as well as the pricing initiative, they are both performing moderately better than what we expected at that point in time in terms of the pace of the 
integration of each of those. And we do expect to have a benefit as we have a full -- as those are rolled in at the beginning of next year when we 
get the -- for the vast majority of the year, get the full run rate benefit of each of those. 
With respect to pricing, that's been rolled out in 3 countries in Q4, and we'll expand that further into next year. And as a reminder, this is -- with 
respect to refund pricing and in line with industry practice, we don't charge fees to process refunds, but also in line with industry practice, we are 
retaining the fix and the variable piece of that. And certain margins are excluded if you have negotiated pricing and so forth. But those are performing 
as expected. 
But as we look at 2020, we'll go live with additional merchants, and we will have additional price changes, always looking to price to the value that 
we create for our customer base. As we offer expanded capabilities and experiences for them, we want to be able to price to that as well. 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Yes. I'll just say, David, that pricing is an ongoing process for us. We had certain things baked into our plans, and we were late on those. We had 
certain expectations on integration, especially into Paymentus, and we were late on those. It's one of the reasons why I'm really happy with the 
performance of so many people on the PayPal team. They were really laser-focused on getting those implemented in the right way. And these are 
complicated integrations, and we want to make sure that we're fully transparent in the way we roll these things out. And so I'm pretty pleased with 
the way the teams stepped up and addressed all of that. 
As John mentioned, I think, on the Paymentus side, we'll have full-stack integration live by the end of the year. And then we start to roll in. Paymentus 
has almost 1,500 billers. We want to role in all of those billers into a Bill Pay app right on the PayPal app, and that will take into the first and second 
quarter before we have that completed. But the full stack integration onto our Braintree platform will happen by the end of the year. 
Pricing, just to reiterate what John said, pricing's an ongoing process for us. We're going to have pricing initiatives this year, next year, the year 
after and the year after that. I mean, we continually assess market dynamics. We look at the evolving practices of our competitors. We take a hard 
look at the value we provide, and then we try to price appropriately based on all those factors. And we price sometimes up. Sometimes we take 
prices down. It depends on product. It depends on corridors. It depends on regions in the world, but we're very considerate about it. We do have 
some degree of latitude in all those things. And right now, I think John and I are both pretty pleased where we are. 
Operator 
Your next question comes from the line of Lisa Ellis with MoffettNathanson. 
Lisa Ann Dejong Ellis - MoffettNathanson LLC - Partner 
It looked like other value-added services beats pretty handily in the quarter. I'm looking at it, it looks like loan growth was up about 65% year-on-year 
and also sequentially. So now that we're kind of clear of the Synchrony transition, can you just give -- can you give us an update on how you're 
thinking about the role of credit in your strategy going forward? And specifically, like how much of this vast growth is going on balance sheet 
versus off balance sheet? And can OVAS continue to grow like this well, well above TPV and revenue growth going forward? 
John D. Rainey - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - CFO & Executive VP of Global Customer Operations 
Sure, Lisa. It's good to speak with you. So as we think about our credit strategy, obviously, you're very familiar with what we did with the U.S. 
consumer loan portfolio when we sold that $6 billion portfolio, and now we have a partnership with Synchrony going forward. That's a strategy 
that we like because it's very much asset-light. 
12
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
When we look at the opportunities for credit in our business, both on the merchant side as well as international consumer, they are significant 
growth opportunities. And we think that, particularly, like when we look at the merchant lending, that's where our value proposition shines when 
we can provide working capital loans, understanding the seasonality and the cyclicality of a merchant's business in a way that others can't with 
access to some of their payment flows. And so we want to continue to grow that. 
But what we don't want, and again, we've demonstrated this with our past experience, we don't want credit to become too capital-intensive to 
where it takes away from other opportunities that we have. And so I do think that OVAS revenue, and specifically credit revenue, can continue to 
grow at a rate higher than overall TPV for PayPal. So I think that's definitely true. 
But if you look at our total credit receivables today, they're about $3.5 billion, inclusive of both merchant and international consumer, far less, 
roughly half of what the U.S. consumer credit receivables were for us when we sold those and we were a much smaller company then as well. And 
so we will get to a point, seemingly, given the opportunity that's in front of us on credit, where we will likely go asset-light with someone or both 
of those portfolios as well. I think that's further down the road, but we want to be very mindful around how we allocate capital in this business to 
both drive value for our shareholders, but also provide good offerings like credit for our customers. 
Operator 
And we have time for one last question from the line of... 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
We're going to do, actually, 2 more questions, I think. 
Operator 
Okay. Our next question comes from the line of Heath Terry with Goldman Sachs. 
Heath Patrick Terry - Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Research Division - MD 
Dan, I realize it hasn't closed yet, but can you give us a sense, maybe a little bit of the history of how it came about that PayPal was chosen to do 
the GoPay deal? I would imagine there was a lot of competition particularly to be the first of its kind. 
And then what the road map could look like for the rollout of those services and the integration that you want to see there? And then, when could 
we see a material cross-border offering in China? And how would that compare to what you're currently able to offer through your Alipay relationship? 
Daniel H. Schulman - PayPal Holdings, Inc. - President, CEO & Director 
Yes. Those are all good questions, Heath. And I think, actually, Heath, given the extent of that question, we'll probably end after this. 
So first of all, obviously, it's incredibly meaningful event to be the first non-Chinese company to obtain a payments license to process domestic 
online payments in China. It's a tangible example of China opening its financial market. We have been working this diligently for years. When I say 
diligent, I mean, literally, almost every single day. We've had calls and have been working this. 
And we worked quite closely with the PBOC, with other authorities inside of China. We worked with the administration here to enable all this to 
happen. And I think what we've demonstrated across the globe, and I think was appreciated by various entities within China, is our ability to work 
closely with regulators. We've invested quite heavily in compliance and risk management, and we're a strong collaborator with the financial 
13
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.
 
Client Id: 77
OCTOBER 23, 2019 / 9:00PM, PYPL - Q3 2019 PayPal Holdings Inc Earnings Call
ecosystem. We're much more partners with the financial ecosystem than go around the financial ecosystem and be a disruptor. We're innovative, 
but we're partners with the existing structure. 
And so I think all of that combined, and a very good working relationship and many years of that enabled this event to happen. It's obviously pretty 
significant for us. It obviously increases our total addressable market quite substantially. China is the world's largest e-commerce market. I think 
there's something like 500 million online shoppers, and they're going to drive something like $2 trillion of online sales this year, just more than 
50% of global online retail. 
And China is obviously an advanced and sophisticated digital marketplace. But we believe that we can offer a quite differentiated value proposition 
to both Chinese merchants and consumers by working closely with Chinese financial institutions, the various tech platforms inside of China to 
connect sort of their vast commerce ecosystem with sort of our vast network of consumers and merchants outside of China. And so this is actually 
a substantial -- substantially more than what we can do right now. 
So for instance, think of, before, we could not work with companies and allow Chinese consumers to purchase from PayPal merchants outside of 
China. And now we can start to facilitate that, working, again, in partnership with Chinese tech platforms and/or Chinese financial institutions. We 
could take Chinese merchants who may want -- maybe want to sell on other platforms and do payouts back into China through cross-border. We'll 
be able to enable that through our platform. Multinationals that are doing business in China can use our platform to enable their transactions and 
for us to process those digital payments coming across there. 
So a lot of people are focusing just on the domestic consumer part of China. There's obviously opportunities there working in connection with 
partners inside of China, but there's a tremendous amount that we leverage kind of the strength of our network and the strength of the vast 
commerce ecosystem inside China, which is significantly digital, and that we think affords us some pretty significant opportunities over at least 
the medium to long term. So we're quite excited about the opportunity. We'll give a lot more details as we go into next year as the transaction 
closes, and we'll make sure that we continue to update everybody on this. 
So again, Heath, thank you for that question. Operator, that will be the last question. I want to thank everybody for joining us today. We appreciate 
your time, and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon. Thank you. 
Operator 
This concludes today's question-and-answer session. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference call. This concludes 
the program, and you may now disconnect. Everyone, have a great afternoon. 
D I S C L A I M E R 
Thomson Reuters reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon 
current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more 
specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the 
assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, 
THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON REUTERS OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME 
ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE 
COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. 
©2019, Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved. 
12783692-2019-10-25T16:16:47.963
14
THOMSON REUTERS STREETEVENTS | www.streetevents.com | Contact Us
©2019 Thomson Reuters. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of Thomson Reuters content, including by framing or similar means, is prohibited 
without the prior written consent of Thomson Reuters. 'Thomson Reuters' and the Thomson Reuters logo are registered trademarks of Thomson Reuters and its 
affiliated companies.

Page 1
PayPal Q3-19 Buyside Call Hosted by Goldman Sachs
October 24, 2019
2 pm ET
OPERATOR: Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the PayPal call with CFO 
John Rainey hosted by Goldman Sachs. At this time, all participants have been placed on a listenonly mode. It is now my pleasure to turn the floor over to your host, Heath Terry. Sir, the floor 
is yours.
MR. TERRY: Great. Thank you. We’re really excited to have John Rainey, CFO of PayPal, here 
with us today, especially after able to take the time after results yesterday. John, thanks for taking 
the time to join us.
MR. RAINEY: Thanks Heath for hosting the call. It’s always good to be able to speak with this 
audience. With me today, I also have two coworkers of mine, so John Kunze, who I believe is 
very familiar to this audience, heads our consumer group, previously head of Xoom, still head of 
Xoom as well. And then, also Erica Gessert. Erica is a partner of mine in finance and runs our 
financial planning and also our data analytics group.
MR. TERRY: Great. Yeah, great to have both the Erica, John as well as the IR team with us here. 
So, just to set the stage on the quarter itself, TPV growth accelerated to its highest level in over a 
year on an FX neutral basis, revenue growth accelerated, you added 10 million net accounts and 
you still grew transaction per account and TPV per account. EBITDA margins were up 200 basis 
points year over year and you’re on track to generate $3.5 billion dollars in free cash flow. I know 
you spent a lot of time on the call yesterday trying to cover everything. And so, before we get into 
everyone’s questions, is there anything that you feel like didn’t get the attention it deserved in the 
conversation yesterday and all the coverage since?
MR. RAINEY: Well sure, Heath. I was going to ask you to continue going because -- that’s pretty 
good. But yeah, I think we’re pleased with the quarter. We saw an acceleration in our payment 
volume, acceleration of revenue growth and you know, I think those are good indications of some 
of the trends we’re seeing in our business heading into 2020. As we think about, you know, items 
maybe that did not get as much focus, maybe we’ll talk about it later in this call, but we’re really 
pleased with the leverage on the expense side in our business. That was some of the best 
performance that we’ve seen at any point in our history. And then I think, you know, as we look 
at opportunities out there, China is one that’s pretty promising. Now, it’s very early on and we 
can talk more about that, but you know, that’s one that depending upon how it pans out and 
admittedly there’s a higher standard deviation there, but depending upon how it pans out could be 
a pretty material to our medium and long-term growth prospects.
Page 2
MR. TERRY: Great. I know we’ll dig into that in a little bit more as we go through the 
conversation. So, just to cover it out of the gate, the question that we most frequently since 
yesterday’s call was around eBay. And I know in our conversation with eBay over the last few 
months, there’s been a change in the way that they’ve talked about the transition. You know, 
we’ve gone from Devin talking about a hard cutover at some point between managed payments 
through PayPal and through eBay’s system to Scott talking about more of a gradual transition that 
could extend through 2021 and really letting the sellers sort of control the pace of the process. You 
talked about a one point drag in 2020 that applies about $200 million, a little over $200 million 
headwind. I think most people expected there to be a more severe drop-off after second quarter. 
So, I guess, first, why aren’t you expecting that? And second, does that imply -- what does that 
imply about the drop-off that you could see in 2021?
MR. RAINEY: Well, so I’ll give some color around that. You know, I think it’s pretty early in 
giving an indication on 2020 guidance. I’m not sure that 2021 is something we’re really prepared 
to talk about, but look we said going back to January of last year when this was first announced, 
we felt like we had a really good -- we do have a really good handle on the impact of this. There’s 
obviously some variability depending upon how quickly eBay transitions away, but very 
comfortable that we can manage this transition and do it while achieving the medium-term 
guidance that we’ve laid out. But let me give some context to the one point and so that people 
better understand that. And so, remember that the business that we do with eBay today, that comes 
in two forms. The first is the unbranded credit card processing and the second is the branded 
PayPal checkout button. The vast majority of our business is the branded piece of the business. 
With eBay moving to their managed payments, they’re transitioning some of the unbranded part 
of the business away from us. And that is also, I think, important to know a less profitable 
component of the two pieces that we have, because it’s mostly card funding. But I think, you 
know, if you look at the two geographies where they have launched this today, US and Germany, 
and our estimates are that they are close to capacity in terms of what they’re actually allowed to 
transition away - 10% of the volume in those entities. So, when we get to the back half of next 
year and they have the full ability to move to other entities, we would expect because they’re live 
in these two jurisdictions of the US and Germany that to happen much more expeditiously there. 
With respect to the rest of the world, we think that there will be a ramp up just like any company 
that goes through a ramp up where you test new experiences with a subset of your consumer group 
and then roll that out more broadly when the experiences are good. But what I think people miss 
and sort of the incongruence of the impact of this and it only being one point is the amount of 
volume that we retain in the branded checkout button -- and so if we take the US today, we are 
close to 50% share of checkout on PayPal with their managed payments. So, to be clear, when 
someone uses the eBay managed payments experience, they’re still checking out with PayPal 
about half the time. In Germany, it’s appreciably higher than that. And so, we believe, and we 
said this back in January of last year that we will retain a significant share of checkout in the 
movement to their managed payments. And because that is the largest piece of our business and 
Page 3
the most profitable piece of our business, it mutes some of the impact of this transition away from 
us. Anything that you’d want to add, Erica?
MS. GESSERT: No, I think you covered it. Like, I think Dan articulated it well, I think, when 
people are doing the math, piece of puzzle they’re missing is the share of checkout that we have
on managed payments.
MR. RAINEY: Yeah, yeah.
MS. GESSERT: It’s been healthfully growing since they launched in the US. One correction, I 
think in Germany, they’re at about 2%, but in the US, they hit their 10%. So, they won’t -- you 
know, they won’t be able to increase that. They won’t try increasing that until late next year, but 
we have a healthy rise still assumed in those countries in the back half.
MR. TERRY: I guess alternatively, one of the ways that question has been asked is if the eBay 
roll-off does happen faster than you’re modeling, how much cushion is there in your 2020 revenue 
guidance?
MR. RAINEY: Well, you know, again, the indication that we gave yesterday is our initial thinking 
about 2020. We will affirmatively give guidance on the next earnings call, but we’d like to give a 
little bit of a leading indicator in terms of what we see in our business. But with any business plan,
and to be clear, we’re going through that process with PayPal right now, with any business plan, 
there are a set of risks to the business and a set of opportunities to the business. You know, eBay 
could actually fall into both of those categories for us depending upon the pace of this transition. 
We think that, you know, within the parameters that we provide in terms of providing the guidance 
range that we can probably manage any risk related to that going into next year.
MR. TERRY: That’s great. Is there a corresponding EPS or operating margin headwind to 2020 
that is right for people to think about?
MR. RAINEY: Yeah. You’re exactly correct, Heath, and it’s significant as well. So, you know, 
I think most people understand about our business because the take rate on the eBay business is 
around 4%, which is higher than the average for PayPal. And so, if you think about sort of the 
components of volume, revenue and earnings that relate to eBay, eBay is about 8% of our volume 
today. They are a larger percentage of our revenue and an even larger percentage of our earnings. 
So, as we encounter that one point of headwind to revenue growth, there is actually more 
significant of an impact to earnings as well. But again, this is where given the scalability of our 
model and all of the other opportunities that we have on the revenue side to continue to grow and 
expand, it helps offset any of that pressure. And I think that that’s something that again is probably 
not well -- is as appreciated as maybe what we see internally and that’s the diversification of our 
platform. We continue to expand in other areas that make us not so reliant on one aspect of 
Page 4
business. And so, you know, that can come through merchants like eBay and other merchants. It 
can also come in geographies where we see, you know, when there’s often weakness in one 
corridor that can be offset by strength in another.
MR. TERRY: No, that’s great. So, maybe just to close out the eBay side, you know, Dan’s talked 
a lot about the opportunities that the end of this version of the eBay relationship creates for PayPal 
to do business with other marketplaces. Should we consider the Facebook marketplace and 
MercadoLibre relationships as those type of opportunities? And then what would it take for 
Amazon to accept PayPal in its checkout flow?
MR. RAINEY: Yeah. So, without being specific to the companies that we’re prohibited from 
operating with in the operating agreement, those are types of companies that you listed that 
certainly we look forward to partnering with. MercadoLibre is a great example. Obviously, we 
made a commitment as a strategic partner there earlier this year and that’s in a region of the world 
where we have less strength than other regions like Europe or Asia. And so, if you think about 
their several hundred million customers that they have being able to use Mercado Pago on our 
network of merchants through a smart payment type experience, that’s really appealing and that’s 
largely a cross-border transaction which tends to be more lucrative for us. By the same token, you 
could envision that PayPal could be a form of checkout on their marketplace. So, those are really 
interesting opportunities and one that we hope come to fruition through the commercial agreement 
that we expect to have with them. With respect to Amazon, you know, I think by our designation 
as an open digital payments platform, it shows that we want to partner with everyone in the world 
and we believe that we can bring a customer base and commerce experiences to those merchants 
which truly help with conversion and provide value to them as well. You know, oftentimes, what 
happens with particular merchants is we may see that there is a region of the world where they are 
less strong and that we can provide PayPal as a payment option, as a way to be introduced into 
their ecosystem. And once that happens, we actually have the opportunity to expand further. And 
so, without being specific to any merchant, you know, we can often take this in stages as well to 
get a bigger presence.
MR. TERRY: Yeah, great. And then just --
MR. KUNZE: Maybe just to add in one other comment that off PayPal acceptance is something 
that we’re very committed to via our card strategies and various in-store strategies and where we 
have issued debit cards to either consumers or merchants or Venmo customers because we have 
debit card offerings for all three of those segments, we’re seeing massively improved engagement 
because they can now use their balances at places where they could not use them before, namely 
offline and merchants that don’t accept PayPal today. And you will see the usual suspects where 
we see these card swipes or a card on file being used, including the names you mentioned.
Page 5
MR. TERRY: Great. Thanks for that John. And I guess, John, just to follow up on one component 
that we’ve gotten a couple of questions about on the eBay retained branded side, can you help us 
understand sort of the impact of pricing as you go from Q2 to Q3? I guess, you know, there is a 
sense out there that with that transition, the branded volume is going to be repriced lower. How 
does that impact pricing on that part of the business?
MR. RAINEY: Yeah. So, with the extension, we have with eBay on the branded part of the 
business, they do enjoy lower pricing than what we have today. Keep in mind that the operating 
agreement was put in place to provide a nice metered transition away from each other over a period 
of time. And one of the elements of that that helped was to retain that pricing. And so, eBay will 
have pricing that is commensurate with the volumes that they -- in terms of the volume of their 
platform, so more arm’s-length or market-based pricing than what they have today, but that also 
sort of ratchets or happens in a metered approach over time as well.
MR. TERRY: And that’s factored into that one point drag you’re talking about?
MR. RAINEY: Yes, it is.
MR. TERRY: Great. So, if you look at the composition of the TPV ex-eBay growth that you’ve 
seen that 31% year over year, accelerated three points relative to last year, what are the main 
drivers of that acceleration and any specific verticals to point to or particular standout geographies 
that that we should be aware of?
MR. RAINEY: Sure. Well, one of the big things that affected our numbers in the quarter was just 
the impact of acquisitions of Hyperwallet and iZettle and that’s -- just on overall TPV, that was 
about three points of impact. And candidly, Heath, that’s one of our focuses as we go into next 
year is to really try to continue to invest in these acquisitions that we’ve made and sort of integrate 
them into the overall PayPal platform. And so, that’s a key driver. And of course, as we look into 
next year, right now, we don’t have any acquisitions that will have that impact. But that’s right
now. We’re always looking at the competitive landscape but just, you know, broadly as we look 
at the merchant services growth, we’re really pleased with the growth that we’ve seen there, the 
acceleration. And you know, I think a lot gets made of big named marketplaces or technology 
platforms and our relationships with them. But we have to remember, there’s a slew of other very 
large marketplaces that, you know, maybe don’t fall into the same category but still provide a ton 
of volume for us. And we’ve got partnerships going live with many of them this quarter that we 
will see some significant impact into next year as well. So, that’s why we’re pleased with what 
we’ve seen and the merchant services growth and believe that we can continue that.
MR. TERRY: So, you know, at some level, this quarter has to be a bit of a relief for you because 
you finally get the opportunity to report without the Synchrony compare weighing on reported 
Page 6
growth. A year later, what’s the verdict on the Synchrony relationship and what is it and credit in 
general contributing to your growth rate?
MR. RAINEY: Sure. So, you are correct in your characterization of how I feel about not having 
to talk about -- accounting anymore and so it’s nice to have a pure compare. But our relationship 
with Synchrony is great. In fact, just this morning, I was speaking with their president, Brian 
Doubles. They could not be better partners to us and I hope that they would say the same thing 
about us. We have mutual interest in being able to grow that portfolio both with PayPal and 
Venmo, excited about the new co-brand card that we’ve announced with them. But to credit more 
generally without being specific to Synchrony, you know, we saw strong growth and you can see 
that in our numbers that we presented yesterday and credit remains a great opportunity for us to 
provide this offering to our customers and we see huge demand for both internationally on the 
consumer side as well as well as the merchant side. But as you’ll see, when we release our Q, the 
overall book right now of assets, of receivables is about $3.5 billion dollars and that’s appreciably 
less, roughly half the size of what our US consumer book was when we sold that to Synchrony. 
And so, we’re very conscious about how we allocate capital and to make sure that, you know, 
every dollar of capital is competing for those opportunities with the highest returns. And we don’t 
want to get into a position where to fund credit, it’s taking away from other opportunities that we 
have. And so, as credit grows, as these other portfolios in our credit grow, we will eventually get 
to a point like we did with the US consumer book where we will explore asset, light like 
opportunities as well. But I think we’re a few years away from that at this point.
MR. TERRY: If we were to head into a more difficult credit environment and if it were to impact 
Synchrony’s appetite for credit or even your appetite for credit, how would you see it impacting 
your growth rate?
MR. RAINEY: Sure. Well, you know, we always look at not only the revenue opportunities but 
also the impact on losses and those are very much tied together. And the partnership that we have 
with Synchrony is a bit of a joint underwriting process. They ultimately control the outcome it’s 
a kind of a partnership that’s set up there. So, you know, we have influence there, but one of the 
things that we did when we agreed on the financial metrics and the return on assets threshold with 
Synchrony is we went back and back tested the portfolio to the last financial crisis. And so, we’re 
very comfortable that, you know, these are pretty durable earnings, so you know, who knows the 
extent or the depth of, you know, the next recession and the impact and what that can be. But 
given what we’ve seen historically, we believe that the durability of this earning stream is strong.
MR. TERRY: That’s great. Venmo monetization is now at $400 million and annual run rate 
doubling, more than doubling year over year, while you’re still growing TPV at 64%. Where do 
we stand today in terms of merchants enabled and what additional initiatives are going to be needed 
to get that to double again, just to set a low bar?
Page 7
MR. RAINEY: When you say it to double again, what are you referring to?
MR. TERRY: Thinking about the run rate and monetization there.
MR. RAINEY: Okay. So, just to remind everyone that we have currently three ways of 
monetizing the Venmo base of at last noted 40 million active users (as of Q1-19) and they include 
the pay with Venmo commerce initiative, the Venmo debit card and the instant withdrawal 
functionality that our customers can use to gain access to their funds instantly into their bank 
account 24/7, and really brings a lot of value to the consumer. And I think that’s the key thing 
here is we don’t ever want to deliver an experience to these customers that is inadequate or 
somehow not relevant to them because we never want to jeopardize this phenomenon, we all call
Venmo. And therefore, we work really hard on making sure every experience that’s delivered first 
brings value, allows a customer to become either more loyal to the platform, more habituated, 
more engaged, more fun, more delighted and I think the debit card has achieved this and the 
numbers really show it. We give people access to spend their balance offline or anywhere online 
that’s not supported typically. And we see the use when people get a debit card from Venmo, 
they’re using it at astonishingly high rates. So, it’s great. And the instant withdrawal feature --
there is by the way a non-monetized withdrawal feature. You can gain access to your funds over 
a couple of days period, but because you can get your money right away, the enrollment rate
(within Instant Withdrawal) has been very good. Pay with Venmo, we’ve made generally available 
to merchants, but we’ve been super careful because of the complexities of these integrations and 
the consequential impact on experience because we’re talking about Venmo being an app-based 
purchase, could require in-app switching, it could require other complexities. And so, we’ve just 
gone very slow on this and fortunately we have the benefit of a growing revenue run rate, as you 
referenced Heath, that allows us to go slow and careful on pay with Venmo. And obviously, I 
can’t be direct in answering the question of when will you double the number, but you can bet that 
we’re going to continue to work on bringing out functionality. Some of that functionality will be 
monetizable. We’re already at a 35% monetized rate, which is up from about 24% a year ago and 
we should expect that number to continue to grow.
MR. TERRY: That’s great John and really helpful. As you have gotten further and further into 
Venmo in your experience with Venmo, how have you thought about the international opportunity 
for Venmo?
MR. KUNZE: Yeah, I think that’s really a question of where best to apply branding and where 
does branding -- where is branding required based on the segments we’re approaching. And I 
think maybe more importantly it might be worth noting that the lesson that Venmo teaches us and 
our customers is that if you take the awkwardness out of the process of sharing value then you can 
create by virality. And if you can make an awkward situation fun, then you get to these 
compounding growth rates that we’re seeing with Venmo. So, maybe the lesson learned for global 
scale more importantly is to harness that lesson learned across all of our brands, including PayPal, 
Page 8
and to make PayPal P2P more fun, less robotic, less transactional and to use the PayPal brand, 
which has huge strengths in non-US markets, Australia, the UK, Germany, France and it might be 
an asset worth using as we’re making awkward exchange of value more fun around the world.
MR. TERRY: That’s really helpful. You know, one of the questions that we got from several 
investors coming out of last night is how they should be thinking about Venmo profitability. Have 
we seen the peak drag on earnings or margins from Venmo? Is that now in the rear-view mirror? 
And as we’re thinking longer term, how will Venmo’s profitability compared to the rest of the 
business as it scales and gets closer to maturity?
MR. RAINEY: Sure, Heath. I’ll jump back in on that one. I know it’s a million-dollar question
that everyone has about, you know, when will Venmo breakeven or begin contributing to the 
bottom-line. What we alluded to or referenced yesterday on the call was the fact that we have seen 
the trough in terms of Venmo losses. We’re actually at a point right now where it’s less of a drag 
on our overall earnings because as we continue to scale Venmo, it is approaching a level, still ways 
to go but approaching a level where we’re closer to break even. And I think it’s important to note 
because even with some investors, if there is a question of can it be profitable versus when will it 
be profitable? And I want to address that head on because if you take the unit economics of 
Venmo, right, then the take rate is the same take rate that it is on PayPal. And so, we have, you 
know, a common user agreement with all of our merchants around that. The transaction expense 
is less than what it is on PayPal because more funding on Venmo is done through balance or ACH. 
So, it has a lower transaction expense. And perhaps, maybe even counterintuitively, the 
transaction loss is at a comparable level as to what it is on PayPal. And I say counterintuitively 
because when you’re going after a lot of growth, you can get growth by accepting more losses. 
And so, to have a loss level on a unit basis that is very commensurate with what we see with PayPal 
gives us strong conviction that this model works. And so, it’s not the old car salesman adage 
where you sell every car at a loss and make up for it in volume. The unit economics are profitable, 
in fact more profitable than what they are on PayPal. And so, as we begin to scale that at a level 
to where we’re able to overcome some of the overhead and investment cost around this, with that 
scale will come profitability.
MR. TERRY: Great. Thanks John. That’s really helpful. You know, in terms of M&A, you’ve 
been very focused on, you know, I think what most people would consider kind of tuck in product 
and geographic capabilities. Where’s your appetite these days for larger scale M&A?
MR. RAINEY: So, you know, larger scale can mean a lot of things. But for us, everything fits 
into the parameters of what we provided at Investor Day where we said that over the five-ish year 
term of our medium-term guidance, you can expect that we will spend on average $1 to $3 billion 
a year on M&A. And so, you know, if you take those bookends over that period could be between 
$5 and $15 billion. And everything we look at sort of fits into that category. Obviously, M&A or 
acquisitions kind of comes in fits and starts sometimes. For every deal that you announce, there 
Page 9
are several that you get close to and walk away from for whatever reason. And so, as we look at 
the landscape of opportunity for us and certainly, you know, compare it to what we’ve already 
done, I think a lot of our investments in the last couple of years had been very focused on the 
merchant side of our platform. We think it’s important to be balanced in the investment, the 
inorganic investment in both sides of our platform, so also the consumer side. And so, there are 
some interesting opportunities that we’re focused on that really help advance commerce with 
PayPal on the consumer side. So, you know, things like that, I think, are really important to us as 
we continue to expand this value proposition equally.
MR. KUNZE: And maybe I’ll just add that the con -- the phrase of a tuck-in is always hard for 
me because when we acquire companies, we’re doing it based on a gap list in our overall solutions. 
So, every time we acquire a company, we’re filling in one of those gaps which could be functional 
or geographic, like iZettle for example, was acquired because they were so strong, they are so 
strong in Europe and Latin America where our own card business was strong in the US primarily. 
So, that was a very good complementary move for us. The same is true with the Hyperwallet. We 
think about functionality to our merchant customers, payment processing sort of funds --
Hyperwallet gives us funds out. And so, now we have the best of both funds in and funds out 
based on this one acquisition and can be a much broader, more effective solution for our merchant 
customers. And I can keep going, but I won’t. But that’s the whole idea here.
MR. TERRY: Great. Thanks. Thanks John. So, John, last night you pointed people to a 17% 
growth rate as sort of an initial guidance for next year. Over the course of this year, you signed 
three -- earlier this year, you signed three, you know, partnerships with really big partners, Uber, 
Facebook Marketplace and MercadoLibre all of which seemed like they could potentially be big 
contributors to growth. What kind of contribution are you expecting from that trio in that 17%?
MR. RAINEY: Well, with Facebook and MercadoLibre, you know, there’s not an outside impact
to our estimates in our financials next year. Uber, we’re further along with as we have a 
commercial partnership with them and now have the opportunity to process more of their volume 
in some of the faster growing regions of the world internationally, like in India, like in Brazil. So, 
more of an impact there. But you know, it’s really -- again, kind of getting back to my earlier 
comment, there’s a lot of focus on some of the bigger names and platforms, but there’s a whole 
slew of merchants and technology platforms that fall in that category right below that, where we 
can drive a tremendous amount of volume. And so, it’s not as if we are dependent upon any one 
of the three that you mentioned or any others for that matter in an outside way next year. It’s the 
combination of all of those in our portfolio, which again goes back to that diversification. And I 
think it’s really important as we transition away from the Bay and we don’t want to be solely 
dependent or too dependent upon one big marketplace for our volume.
Page 10
MR. TERRY: Is there a notable -- is there a notable contribution in that number from iZettle that 
we should be thinking about? I guess, when we’re thinking about sort of the operational roadmap 
for iZettle, what does that look like now that you’ve finally been able to fully close that deal?
MR. KUNZE: Yeah, we’re really excited about, you know, having the handcuffs off and being 
able to run a proper integration process for iZettle like we do for all of our acquired companies. 
And we’ve just launched lightweight integration between PayPal and iZettle in three markets and 
soon four, the UK, France, Germany, and soon the Netherlands, as a foreshadowing of covering 
all their markets in a reasonable timeframe. And I think this is probably the fastest that we’ve ever 
come to a lightweight integration with any acquired company. And really happy about that and 
also that tells us that our ability to begin to create synergies through integration, our ability to do 
that is improving. And as far as the revenue contribution of iZettle, I think, you know, based on 
when we made the announcement how big they are and they’re performing as expected.
MR. TERRY: Great. Thanks John. Dan spent some time yesterday on the call talking about the 
work that went into securing the GoPay investment. How are you thinking and how should your 
investors be thinking about modeling the financial impact from that business? And I guess, 
structurally, what’s the incentive for a Chinese consumer business to use GoPay, PayPal in a 
transaction versus a domestic payment processor?
MR. RAINEY: Sure. So, China, we hope is -- well, it certainly has the possibility of being very 
material in our medium to long-term guidance, but it also requires a significant level of investment 
or how we’ll operate that business there. And so, this is not anything that will likely move the dial 
appreciably in 2020. This is -- I would encourage people to think of it as a 2021 and beyond type 
of initiative. But when you take our two-sided network of merchants and consumers and you think 
about the opportunity with the addressable market in China, it’s very-very material. So, a couple 
of stats. You know, the estimate that I’ve seen is that China will be 40% of all cross-border
commerce in 2021. And when you -- getting to your question, when you think about a Chinese 
consumer being able to shop at our network of merchants, 23 million merchants around the world, 
and to be able to use PayPal or you know perhaps we provide one of the other payment buttons 
that they like to use in a smart button type presentment in what is a cross-border transaction, that’s 
a pretty promising opportunity. You know, even today they’ve got -- I don’t know the exact 
number, but half a billion digital users. And so, you know, I don’t -- we don’t have these delusions 
to where we think that we’re ever going to supplant an Ali or a Tencent there, but if we can get a 
small piece of that addressable market, then that can be very-very material to us. And so, you 
know, it’s something that we’re excited about. We have put a lot of work and I can’t underscore 
that enough, a lot of work to get to this point and we’ve worked very closely with the regulatory 
authorities there and we’ll take an approach that’s similar to what we’ve done in other geographies, 
really leans into partnership. You know, we have partnerships today with Ali and CUP and we 
hope to expand upon those and others to be able to really enhance the commerce opportunities 
there.
Page 11
MR. TERRY: Great. Thanks John. So, how should investors think about the sustainability of the 
1.9% non-volume-based opex growth? You mentioned on the call that it was 4 cents normalized 
and previously it had been framed in the long-term range between 10 and 15 cents.
MR. RAINEY: Well, I’d characterize this kind of like I have transaction losses over the last couple 
of quarters. We’ve seen a significant improvement in transaction losses, but we’ve only seen that 
for two quarters. And so, you know, we’re seeing some very promising signs about the 
sustainability of that, but it’s still early on before we really call that a trend if you will. And I think 
our opex or non-volume related expenses, I put into a similar category. This is the best 
performance that we’ve ever seen but it also is on the heels of last quarter where we had really 
good performance. I do think, Heath, this is at the lower end of the type of cost performance you 
should expect us to have and -- but you know, that 10 to 15 cents range or maybe slightly lower 
than that is a good way to model our business. What’s encouraging is the manner in which this is 
coming in terms of it really being a result of discipline and prioritization in the business and a 
change in the way that we do things. I used the example yesterday on the (earnings) call around 
customer service. I won’t repeat the example, but you know, it’s an indication that we’re just 
running the business in a smarter way rather than just throwing heads at issues that pop-up. How 
do we get better, how do we develop products better, what are the -- what’s the tool set that we 
give to our developers and engineers to develop that product? And that’s the appeal of a platform 
like ours is to be able to grow and scale and do it at a very-very low marginal cost. We continue 
to demonstrate that and we’re excited about the performance we had in the quarter.
MR. TERRY: Right. Of all the new initiatives, can you rank by importance the top two or three 
for the next couple of years? Venmo, Pay with Points, Paymentus, Facebook, Instagram and any 
key assumptions for these that investors should use to track progress?
MR. RAINEY: Sure. So, I’ll list a handful here in no particular order, but some that I think rise 
to the top for me and I welcome thoughts from my colleagues, but certainly improving upon the 
consumer value prop, I put right up there. And that would include moving more into the offline 
world. That’s something that we think is really important. Venmo is kind of a subset of that, but 
it’s -- it’s just its own category for obvious reasons. That’s another one I would put in there. And 
I would also say continuing to invest in the acquired companies that we’ve had. That’s a big 
opportunity. John talked about iZettle and Hyperwallet. These are complementary assets to the 
services that we provide today and making them seamless in a platform is something that our 
merchant can -- our merchant base really desires and so we’ll do that. You know, beyond that a 
couple of things that are really important but probably have less of a 2020 impact. I mentioned 
China and that’s -- that’s, you know, I think an obvious opportunity, but international expansion 
in general is something that’s pretty important to us. And again, this is one of these categories,
I’ll just use a couple of examples here. We have a great share of wallet in Germany. Will we ever 
have that same share of wallet in a market like India? You know, probably not. It’s a pretty 
Page 12
fragmented market, but even if we get remotely close to that, because again, it’s another market 
with 400 or 500 million digital users that can drive significant share and volume for us. And so, 
that’s something that we’re continuing to invest in because when you look around the globe, when 
you look at the white space that exists for us, that white space exists in some enormous addressable 
markets that we believe that we can have a prominent place in.
MR. TERRY: Great. Thanks, I appreciate that. One of the more sort of modeling questions that 
we got was how to think about the tax rate for 2020, is any part of the 280 basis point benefit that 
you saw in Q3 from that sustainable or favorable geographic mix of pre-tax income sustainable 
into next year?
MR. RAINEY: I wouldn’t model next year differently than what the way we’ve thought about 
this year. We’ll give specific guidance next quarter that that 17% to 19% range is the right run 
rate to think about us. Some of the factors in this quarter were more specific to the quarter and 
even the geographic mix can move around from one quarter to the next.
MR. TERRY: Got you. And then any view on common secure remote -- sorry, common secure
remote commerce checkout buttons being rolled out by the networks, could that potentially be a 
threat to one click checkout over time?
MR. RAINEY: Yeah, we’ve seen this in other forms from the same players in the past. You 
know, the combination of all of it together I don’t think represents a very different type of threat 
to us. I would expect that the consumers that are using this are probably those that use guest 
checkout today and so they’re already using or paying with a credit card. You know, the PayPal 
value proposition still shines. And when we look at our customer base and their willingness to use 
PayPal and the lack of friction that is presented in checkout, and again, we see a little bit of this 
happening right now with this transition to eBay. That’s a good data point is to the stickiness of 
payments. And so, you know, it’s a competitive landscape. It’s something we’ve seen before. I 
don’t think that it will materially change anything for us.
MR. TERRY: Great. John, I think we could probably keep going for another hour or so, but I 
know we only have so much time with you. I want to thank you and Erica and John Kunze as well 
for -- as well as the IR team for taking the time to join us. I think everyone, you know, certainly 
found a lot of value in the time that you spent with us and certainly look forward to catching up 
again soon.
MR. RAINEY: Well, Health, I’d like to thank you as well for agreeing to host the call. It’s always 
a good opportunity to be able to provide a little bit more color and we get feedback too on things 
maybe where there are additional questions from the call. So, this is a two-way benefit, and so we 
really appreciate this opportunity and hope it was a value to all those that are listening.
Page 13
MR. TERRY: Great. Thanks again, John.
MR. RAINEY: Thanks Heath.
OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today’s conference call. You 
may disconnect your phone lines at this time and have a wonderful day. Thank you for your 
participation.
END