Atlassian Corporation Plc
First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call
October 19, 2017
1
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
C O R P O R A T E P A R T I C I P A N T S
Ian Lee, Head of Investor Relations
Scott Farquhar, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer 
Mike Cannon-Brookes, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer 
Murray Demo, Chief Financial Officer 
Jay Simons, President
C O N F E R E N C E C A L L P A R T I C I P A N T S
Matt Broome, Cowen & Company
Michael Turits, Raymond James
John DiFucci, Jefferies
Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs
Richard Davis, Canaccord Genuity
Keith Bachman, Bank of Montreal 
Sanjit Singh, Morgan Stanley 
Bhavan Suri, William Blair & Company
George Iwanyc, Oppenheimer
Jonathan Kees, Summit Redstone Partners
Alex Kurtz, KeyBanc Capital Markets
Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen & Company
Patrick Walravens, JMP Group
P R E S E N T A T I O N
Operator:
2
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining Atlassian’s Earnings Conference Call for the first
quarter of fiscal year 2018. As a reminder, this conference call is being recorded and will be available for 
replay from the Investor Relations section of Atlassian’s website following this call. 
All participants will be in listen-only mode. Should you need assistance, please signal a conference 
specialist by pressing the star key followed by zero.
I will now hand the call over to Ian Lee, Atlassian’s Head of Investor Relations. 
Ian Lee: 
Good afternoon and welcome to Atlassian’s First Quarter Fiscal 2018 Earnings Conference Call. On the 
call today we have Atlassian’s Co-Founders and CEOs, Scott Farquhar and Mike Cannon-Brookes in 
Sydney, and our Chief Financial Officer, Murray Demo, and our President, Jay Simons.
Earlier today, we issued a press release and a Shareholder Letter with our financial results and 
commentary for our first quarter of fiscal year 2018. These items are also posted on the Investor 
Relations section of Atlassian’s website at investors.atlassian.com. On our IR website, there is also an 
accompanying presentation and data sheet available. 
We’ll make some brief opening remarks and then spend the rest of the call on Q&A. 
Statements made on this call include forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve 
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance 
or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements 
expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking 
statements as predictions of future events. Forward-looking statements represent our management’s 
beliefs and assumptions only as of the date such statements are made. 
In addition, during today’s call we will discuss non-IFRS financial measures. These non-IFRS financial 
measures are in addition to and not as a substitute for or superior to measures of financial performance 
prepared in accordance with IFRS. There are a number of limitations related to the use of these non-IFRS 
financial measures versus their nearest IFRS equivalents and they may be different from non-IFRS 
measures used by other companies. A reconciliation between IFRS and non-IFRS financial measures is 
available in our earnings release, our Shareholder Letter and our updated Investor Data Sheet on our IR
website. 
Further information on these and other factors that could affect the Company’s financial results is 
included in filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to time, including the 
section entitled Risk Factors in our most recent Forms 20-F and 6-K. 
I will now turn the call over to Scott for his brief opening remarks before we move to Q&A. 
Scott Farquhar: 
Good afternoon. Thanks everyone for joining today. We had a great start to Fiscal 2018. This quarter we 
grew revenue 42% year-over-year and generated over $62 million of free cash flow. We also added over 
4200 net new customers and now have more than customers 107,700 customers in total.
For Mike and I, the clear highlight of the quarter was hosting our largest ever user conference at Atlassian 
Summit. We had approximately 3600 partners, customers and Atlassians come together in San Jose, 
California. It’s amazing to meet with our customers and hear how they’re using our products to unleash 
3
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
the full potential of their teams. We’re blown away every year by the stories from teams of every type and 
size, using our products in ways that we never imagined when we started Atlassian 15 years ago. 
We also had great representation from Atlassian user group members and leaders who came from 
countries as far afield as Kenya, Japan, Russia and Chile. Atlassian user groups are passionate 
communities of users who gather together in events in their local cities to learn and network, and they 
play a key role in supporting excitement around our products and the word-of-mouth model that fuels our 
growth. 
We shared some exciting product developments at Summit, a number of which we highlighted in our 
Shareholder Letter. One of the most notable announcements was the launch of Stride, our new team 
communication product built from the ground up to help teams turn conversations into action. Stride goes 
beyond just chat, offering best-in-class team group messaging, features for real-time meetings including 
audio and video conferencing and screen sharing, and collaboration tools for recording actions and 
decisions across teams. 
It was also great to see many of you in person at our first investor and financial analyst session at 
Summit. Mike, Jay, Murray, Sri and I appreciate the chance to share more about our business and to chat 
with you directly. 
With that, I will turn the call over to the Operator for Q&A.
Operator:
We will now begin the question and answer session. To ask a question, you may press star, then one on 
your touch-tone. If you are using a speakerphone, please pick up your handset before pressing the keys. 
To withdraw your question, please press star, then two. 
The first question comes from Gregg Moskowitz with Cowen & Company. Please go ahead.
Matt Broome:
Hi, this is actually Matt on for Gregg. I think he’s not able to get to the call right now. How big of a 
development effort was behind the Atlassian teamwork platform and what do you think this means for 
your cross-selling prospects over time?
Scott Farquhar: 
Scott here. Thanks, Matt. The Atlassian development platform is a single platform we’re building in our 
cloud products to unify the way our products work, look and feel and a lot of the way that users interact 
with our products. We’ve got a system of elements which are things and ways of working inside our 
products such as Tasks and Decisions that are flowing through all of our products. That development 
effort has been going on for the best part of the year and we’re really excited about the way it 
differentiates our products against competitors in the marketplace, but also provides a unified way of 
working across all of our products, which will help our cross-sell opportunities.
Now, the first release of that, probably the best example is inside Stride, our next product that we 
launched and that’s had great customer reaction, not only for Stride but also (inaudible) platform. 
Matt Broome:
Okay, great. I guess, have you begun to see any early traction with Atlassian Stack?
4
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
Jay Simons:
Hey Matt, this is Jay. Stack is relatively straightforward packaging of multiple Data Center products into a 
single offering. We’ve seen, as we’ve commented earlier and certainly this quarter, great attraction from 
the customer base towards Data Center, and for customers that look to standardize, expand on multiple 
parts of the business across software, IT and business teams, and they want to upgrade to all versions of 
Data Center, Stack is a really simple purchase vehicle. I think we are pleased with the adoption so far.
Matt Broome:
Okay, great. Thanks very much.
Operator:
The next question comes from Michael Turits with Raymond James. Please go ahead.
Michael Turits:
Hey guys, obviously a really strong quarter. Maybe you could talk about where the upside really came in 
the quarter, and also, especially it was really strong on the billing side, so why did see that big, 
disproportionately very positive upside to the deferred in the billings relative to revenue?
Murray Demo:
Hey Michael, this is Murray. We had—this is our eighth quarter as a public company, this was our 
strongest quarter, sort of aggregate demand. We really saw a lot in our Enterprise business, by Data 
Center and server, just sort of strong adoption across the board, and we were just very pleased with the 
results along those lines. We also saw particular strength in Marketplace this quarter as well.
Michael Turits:
I saw that in the other lines. I was actually going to ask you about that. Then embedded in my question 
there was a question about why billings upside was even stronger than revenue. Obviously it’s more 
forward-looking, but what was it? A bigger shift towards subscription or is there any benefit from duration? 
Anything that would have given you that particularly big boost in the deferred side?
Murray Demo:
Again, along the same lines, the subscription business. So Data Center being part of that, that’s a 
subscription go-to-market model for our customers. Again, for the larger organizations, we’re seeing this 
trend of expanding beyond software in IT teams with the larger enterprise adoption, and a lot of that is in 
Data Center which is a subscription offering, so you’ll see that go to deferred revenue and then we’ll 
recognize the revenue over time.
Michael Turits:
If I can squeeze one more little one in, I’d appreciate it. Just on tax rate, I think last quarter you actually 
looked at what looked like it was going to be a higher tax rate than what we had expected and now in the 
Shareholder Letter it mentioned the tax rate going down in ’18 relative to ’17, so maybe you could help us 
out with that and if you could tell us what tax rate we ought to use and what the change is.
Murray Demo:
5
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
We don’t guide specifically with the tax rate. Under IFRS it’s very difficult. From a IFRS standpoint, we 
see it going down from ’17 to ’18. On a non-IFRS basis it’s actually going the other way, and the target we 
provided on our July earnings call said that it was embedded in the earnings per share guidance; we see 
no change to that.
Now, under GAAP, which everybody is sort of used to, you get to smooth the tax rate over the course of 
the year. Under IFRS, we can’t do that, and because of this shift of income and deductions in different 
jurisdictions around the world with different tax rates and things like that, this particular quarter the shift 
worked in a way where it was beneficial to the non-IFRS tax rate. But for the full year, as we think about it 
as it’s built into the EPS target, it’s going to swing back the other way and there’s no change to the full 
year sort of embedded non-IFRS tax rate for Fiscal ’18. It’s a much more complicated tax rate process 
than under GAAP.
Michael Turits:
Okay. Thanks a lot.
Operator:
The next question comes from John DiFucci with Jefferies. Please go ahead.
John DiFucci:
Thank you. I have a question on the longer-term annual price increase that you planned to instill, and I 
know it’s still early for this one, but it’s more a question around the philosophy here because we’re getting 
more questions around that. It’s obviously you increase prices, if sales keep up that’s a good thing. But 
your mission has always been to deliver technologies to the masses of corporations and users that’s easy 
to consume and easy to use, and part of that being easy to consume is price. Can you just maybe talk to 
us a little bit about the—I realize in all of our work that customers get a ton of value out of Atlassian 
products, and especially relative to the competition. But directionally, how does an annual price increase 
in server and cloud products jive with your mission to deliver this to the—to get everybody to use it?
Murray Demo:
Good question on the pricing. Obviously this is one that’s getting a lot of attention. First of all, we are not 
going to change our sort of low price, high value to customers. We’re not that strategy; absolutely we’re 
not changing. This is more just really kind of tweaks on the margin in terms of price increases. Our costs 
obviously are going up every year. Every single software vendor that we purchase from, they have a price 
increase that gets passed on to us, and we believe that that’s a better approach than what we’ve done in 
the past where we may go a few years and then we hit the customers with a price increase. It throws off 
their own planning. We just feel this is a much better way to go with it.
We’ll make those decisions on what we do with price each year as we go forward. If we’re in a 
recessionary environment it might be that we don’t have a price increase that year. Other years we may 
have something more. So, it’ll be something that we’ll just kind of look at on a year-to-year basis, but we 
are absolutely not going to change the value proposition that we give to customers, which is incredible 
products, tremendous value at low prices. Our plan is not to do anything to disrupt that go-to-market 
model.
John DiFucci:
Great. That’s very clear, Murray. If I might, just a quick follow-up to Mike’s question, or it’s related anyway. 
Very strong cash flow, and by the results all across the board are really strong but that cash flow number 
6
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
is pretty impressive. I realize that you gave some of the reasons as to why it was strong, but other than 
strong business momentum, is there any—are there any other reasons? I don’t see any, but are there any 
other reasons we should be aware of that were unique this quarter that we perhaps shouldn’t expect 
going forward?
Murray Demo:
Typically, John, you know in our first quarter is the quarter that we pay out bonuses to our employees. 
We’ve been accruing it all year and then the payout is in our first quarter so it tends to be a seasonally 
weak quarter and yet here we are with I think it’s our second strongest free cash flow quarter that we’ve 
had as a public company. A few things that went into that. 
Number one is that you can see the deferred revenue, strong. You could do your calculated bookings. 
That had a big part to do with it.
We also on sort of the working capital side, on payables, just timing. We’re not managing it. We did have 
a little higher payables at the end of the quarter that’ll work against us in Q2, so as you kind of think 
through while we don’t guide quarterly free cash flow, we’ll have it kind of go a little bit the other way on 
payables as we make some payments in the second quarter.
We had higher profits. You can see that with the additional revenue that we had this quarter, that it flowed 
through to operating margin, so the leverage in the model, that had something to do with it.
Then for the full year we’re still targeting $25 million to $30 million for cap ex but some of the cap ex in Q1 
kind of moved out into subsequent quarters. 
So, all of that factored in but it was really the strong sort of deferred revenue was the primary driver of the 
free cash flow.
John DiFucci:
Which is reflective of the business momentum. Really nice job, guys. Thank you.
Murray Demo:
Thank you. 
Operator:
The next question comes from Heather Bellini from Goldman Sachs. Please go ahead.
Heather Bellini:
Hi. Can you hear me? Hello? Great, sorry about that. Thanks for taking the question. I just wanted to ask 
about Jira Service Desk for a second. Wanted to ask about the momentum you’re seeing in the business, 
if you could just kind of give us an update given it’s been a little bit since the introduction. Just wanted to 
see how that’s progressing. Also, I know you introduced the white label version I think over the last three 
months or so. I was just wondering if you could share with us kind of how the initial uptake of that has 
been and kind of what drove you to offer that as an option. Thanks.
Jay Simons:
7
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
Hey Heather, this is Jay. Firstly, momentum for Jira Service Desk continues to be great. I mean we’re 
pleased with the traction that we see in it. We’ve disclosed previously 25,000 organizations on Jira 
Service Desk. There continues to be great demand for the two dimensions that it serves, both customers 
that seek to improve the way that their service teams from IT to marketing better serve internal 
constituents and customers, then also for customers that want to better enable the service and support 
relationship with their customers, especially where that is connected pretty deeply to Jira Software and 
kind of the internal technology teams that are building some technologies that their external customers 
are using. So, it’s great.
At Summit, for folks that were there, I think you would have continued to see a lot of excitement and 
interest around Jira Service Desk, and maybe just to see the dimensionality of it, go back through the 
online sessions and you’ll see Airbnb talk about how they’re building a service culture with Jira Service 
Desk. You’ll see Samsung talk about their deeper journey around ITIL and internal service management; 
the Trade Desk talking about better client engagement through Jira Service Desk. So, it’s great.
In terms of the white label question—sorry, we don’t call it that. I think that continues to support the kind 
of external use case around service and support. It was a widely requested feature. Part of the road map I 
us inventing new and different ways for customers to engage clients. Part of that is investing in the things 
that they need to do it more effectively and that’s sort of a clear version of the latter. In addition, just 
helping them brand the experience so it’s part of their interface to their customers. We also offered 
localization, just because we are a company that has customers in hundreds of different countries, so in 
addition to branding, you know, real local language is a dimension that I think improves the relationship 
between our customers and their customers. 
Heather Bellini:
Great. Thank you very much.
Operator:
The next question comes from Richard Davis with Canaccord. Please go ahead.
Richard Davis:
Thanks very much. When we talk to investors about you guys, they love the selling model and the high 
R&D focus. The only question that I kind of regularly get is that they would love a little bit of color on kind 
of where the R&D is going, you know? For example, I saw you guys introduce some new Bitbucket and 
Bamboo versions and I was talking to some Dev team guys and they were thrilled about the scale. I 
guess, basically, the question is could you talk at least at a high level how you think about allocating 
developer effort between scale, between new functions, and then even I’ve talked to some guys recently, 
they’re trying to put a layer of security on top of the code at rest and in motion. Just a little bit of color 
there would be super helpful. Thanks.
Scott Farquhar:
Richard, Scott here. R&D is across a broad area. As you think about our products we sell on the quality of 
our products, not the quality of our sales people, and so we’re going to continue to invest strongly in our 
R&D to make sure that we have marketing-leading products in all of the segments that we operate in. As 
we mentioned at our Investor Day, some of that effort over the last year has been re-platforming in the 
cloud to set us up for the next level of growth and to have the ability to serve larger customers in the 
cloud, so to spend some energy there. We’re still improving our mobile products. There’s a lot of growth 
we see there in terms of making sure our products (inaudible) across mobile. You’ve seen us continually 
8
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
invest in all the products we have whether they’re built from scratch or an acquisition. We continue to 
invest in R&D to make sure those products are best-in-class. 
At Summit, we launched our team platform, as I mentioned earlier. That team platform is a standard way 
of working across all of our products. You probably saw it most acutely in the launch of Stride but a lot of 
the things we’re doing there are rolling through all of our products, which we believe gives us an 
advantage on any individual product-to-product basis versus competitors, but also advantage in cross-sell 
and allowing us to more seamlessly move our customers across our entire product set. 
Richard Davis:
Got it. So, multiple fronts in a good way. Thank you.
Operator:
The next question comes from Keith Bachman with BMO Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Keith Bachman:
Hi. Good evening, gentlemen. Thanks for taking the question. The first is I wanted to follow up DiFucci 
and go back to pricing for a second. In the original context it was thought that pricing would be (inaudible) 
of low single digits. I think in your Shareholder Letter you reiterated that. Our checks at your trade show 
and otherwise would suggest we haven’t found any customers that push back at all on the price 
increases, and so it seems like there would be more help in low single digits but what are we missing from 
that?
Murray Demo:
So far the expectations, our expectations going into it in terms of customer reaction has pretty much been 
on track. A lot of the price increases that we’re putting forward this year are going into subscription type 
models. You’re not going to see the flow through all sort of recognized this year. It’s going to go into 
deferred revenue and come off over time. 
We have some customers that have decided they might have had more than 10 users in the cloud and 
then they downgrade to 10 users so they can get the starter price and save money that way or they move 
from monthly to annual, so there are some customers who are making some decisions around that. Some 
say, “Well, I’m going to go ahead and renew my maintenance in advance of the price increase on 
maintenance,” so you get a little—we get a little movement forward on our bookings kind of thing but we 
don’t get the revenue because they’re trying to get ahead of the price increase. All of these things went 
into sorting through what it meant for our revenue targets for the year. Everything to this point is on track
and everything is factored into the guidance that we’ve got for this year of 841 to 847.
I’d also just add a little bit on that. As you kind of look at the model over the course of the year, as we get 
into the second half of the year, we’re going to go up against sort of the Trello. We acquired in the third 
quarter and so the compares get a little tougher so it has sort of a regulating impact on the growth rate of 
our revenue. 
We’re also just one quarter into the year; we’re off to a terrific start but we’re being prudent as we think 
about our revenue targets for the full year, and we’ll go through another quarter here and we’ll be in a 
position to give you an update on the next call in terms of how we’re doing with the revenue overall for 
Fiscal ’18.
Keith Bachman:
9
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
Okay, great. Thanks. It’s certainly off to a good start. 
Murray, perhaps this is for you but I’ll throw it out to the wider audience. The cloud foundation was 
discussed at the analyst event a few months ago and just wanted to revisit what are the benefits that 
shareholders should be thinking about as it relates to new cloud foundation? It seems like faster time to 
market would be certainly one, and perhaps even more leverage on the R&D side, but wanted to just 
open that up. How should we be thinking about the cloud foundation and the benefit to your organization 
going forward?
Murray Demo:
I’ll make a few comments on that, Keith, and then open it up to my colleagues if they would like to add 
anything to it.
From a shareholder perspective, clearly moving to third party cloud and all the tools that comes with it, it’s 
going to allow us to innovate at a much more rapid rate. We’re in the apps business. We’re not in the 
managing data centers business, and so looking to a third party that do that, they’re going to be able to 
scale much more effectively than we are, much more cost effectively. As you look at kind of the gross 
margin over time, while we’ll see more and more of our business be on cloud that runs at a lower gross 
margin than our server business, we’ll be more cost effective with a third party running that. Then, going 
from single to multitenant and all that, again, is just innovation, being cost effective as far as adding on to 
that. That’s all good for the shareholder, that’s good for the customer. 
I don’t know if anybody here wants to add on to that as far as from the customer perspective.
Scott Farquhar:
Scott here. Moving (inaudible) data centers allows us to light up more data centers in a global sense a 
whole lot easier than we can and with less time and cost and distraction to do that than we would have if 
we’re doing it ourselves, and so that allows us to serve our global customers better. (Inaudible) around 
performance and latency but over time it’ll allow us to work in other jurisdictions where they have certain 
data requirements.
It also opens for the larger customers over time. At the moment we have a 2000 user limit and we’re 
working towards removing that over time. 
Thirdly, it allows us to have sort of a standard platform and we introduced our Identity Manager product at 
out Summit, which is also sort of large customers, and allows us to sort of innovate faster and we see the 
time we’re not spending building on data centers we can spend on building products for our customers 
and they’re seeing the benefit of that already.
Murray Demo:
Yeah, I think it goes without saying at the end of the day we believe it’s going to lead to more revenue 
and less cost, so I think that’s what shareholders are looking for.
Keith Bachman:
Okay. I was going to sneak one more for Jay in, if I could. Jay, in the new customer adds, call it just over 
4000, 4200 and change, was there any difference in complexion of what the new customers are initially 
buying, which I assuming is still Jira and Confluence, but was there any difference in the composition of 
the products associated with the new customer adds versus, say, the last number of quarters?
10
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
Jay Simons:
Not materially, no. I mean we see, we continue to see increased adoption of Jira’s Service Desk as a first 
product because it expands the dimensionality that I talked about earlier, but on the whole, pretty 
consistent across product portfolio and also deployment model, between cloud and server where threequarters or those customers begin their journey with us in the cloud.
Keith Bachman:
All right, fair enough. Many thanks.
Operator:
The next question comes from Sanjit Singh with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.
Sanjit Singh:
Thank you for taking the question. Congrats on a nice quarter. I wanted to toggle back to Heather’s 
question on Jira Service Desk. I sort of feel where it points to a growing opportunity there, a lot of traction 
in the mid market. My question is in terms of like a go-to-market model, or maybe even for just a service 
business support model, that product seems a little bit different versus your ‘try and buy’ of Jira and 
Hipchat and now Stride. Is there any other type of investment that you guys are doing to promote 
adoption of Jira Service Desk that’s different from a services or a go-to-market perspective versus the rest 
of the product portfolio?
Jay Simons:
Hey, this is Jay. I’ll tackle that one again. No, not materially in terms of differences. It’s straight in line with 
the way that we approach go-to-market and customer acquisition with our other products. Jira Service 
Desk, like everything else in the portfolio, you can begin with a particular service team internally, so you 
can start with either IT or you can start with Marketing. I think the hallmark of all of our products is I think 
ease of adoption and configurability. With our more complex service collaboration use cases or business 
processes, be it for Jira Service Desk or otherwise, we’ve got a channel of solution partners over 400 
wide, 400 strong in countries all over the world that we’ve enabled and equipped to kind of configure the 
product for more complexity. They can also aid in the expansion for a customer that might begin with one 
particular use case and then expand to others. There’s just loads of opportunity, I think, for them to bring 
in an expert to help kind of canvass the organization for other opportunity and also to configure it for the 
more complex opportunities. But that’s probably not where we start. I think the channel can begin there. 
They can go into a really large automotive organization and with their knowledge and experience of Jira 
Service Desk begin to map that to really complex, meaty opportunities. It’s not necessarily one 
directional.
I think if you look at the volume of customers that we acquire, it really begins I think in the way that all of 
our products begin, sort of small and then expand over time based on the success of the product.
Sanjit Singh:
That’s super helpful, Jay. Then maybe one for Scott or Mike. In terms of the expansion into business 
teams, you have multiple ways to do this now with Confluence, Jira Core, Trello and now Stride. So in 
terms of as we look into the rest of Fiscal Year ’18, can you give us a sense of what the playbook might 
be now that you have a broader portfolio, how you might try to attract customers or attract teams in this 
segment of the market that might have been different versus the past couple of years?
11
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
Mike Cannon-Brookes:
Thanks, Sanjit. We told you guys many, many times our goal is go after the Fortune 500,000 and to do 
that with all the teams to unleash the potential of every time. Nothing in that goal and aspiration is 
changing. We passed 100,000 customers this quarter so it’s a big milestone on that journey.
In terms of going after teams outside of software and IT, no difference or change to the model, to the goto-market approach. Trello lands in all sorts of different teams at the start and then expands across an 
organization. Similarly with Stride, similarly with, as you mentioned, Jira Core, Jira Service Desk, so no 
change to our model to go after those teams. 
We focus on—I guess you’ve seen us spend a lot of time and effort in the last couple of years on design. 
We talked about it a lot at our Summit user conference in terms of continuing to drive the product 
experience to appeal to a broader and broader set of users. Obviously that helps us across the business 
but it doesn’t change in any way the go-to-market motion to attract those customers. 
Sanjit Singh:
That’s great. Thanks, Mike. Then the last one for me, in terms of for Murray, if we look at the—I think at 
Analyst Day you talked about customers greater than 50K having these really strong renewal rates. Can 
you give us a sense of what percentage of the revenue base or what percentage of ARR does that cohort 
represent?
Murray Demo:
We haven’t provided that specific information. We haven’t done that. This quarter I can just tell you that 
we had particular strength in the Enterprise as our Data Center offerings continue to expand, so seeing 
some real success there, but as far as that specificity, we just haven’t provided that level of information. 
Sanjit Singh:
Fair enough. Congrats again.
Murray Demo:
Great. Thank you.
Operator:
Our next question comes from Bhavan Suri with William Blair. Please go ahead.
Bhavan Suri:
Hey guys, thanks for taking my question, and congrats, nice job there. Just one maybe for Jay to start off 
with. I’m going to touch on Service Desk here. Jay, when you look at the partners and before Jira Service 
Desk they were obviously selling Jira, but as you look at the Platinum Partners specifically, are they 
shifting the mix and selling the Confluence, Jira Service Desk or are they still strongly pushing Jira? Then 
just a second part to that is, have you seen them start to sell deals in larger volume sizes or are they still 
working with small deals and expanding, or do they typically come in with a larger sort of 500 or 1000 
12
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
seat deal? Just trying to understand the dynamics of the Platinum Partners and what’s driving the growth 
there in terms of deal size and product.
Jay Simons:
Thanks, Bhavan. Platinum Partners tend to focus on more complex, larger organizations, and so the 
Enterprise opportunity that exists for Data Center and in the cloud, and with new releases like Identity 
Manager, that’s where they’re going to play. These are companies that have a service and consulting 
business as their primary growth engine, and so they’re looking for more complex landscape that they 
can basically take maybe initially a starting point with one product and then expand that across the 
portfolio. That’s where they gravitate. Even within Platinum, there is some specialization so there are 
solution partners that will focus primarily on Confluence and kind of the broader content collaboration 
opportunity that that provides to them. There are partners that focus maybe particularly on Jira Service 
Desk around ITSM and ITIL. There are Platinum Partners that focus specifically on just the technology 
opportunity that continues to grow as more and more companies become technology companies first.
So, I think it’s really wide and diverse. There’s no one size fits all, but I would say that Platinum tend to 
orient more towards Enterprise.
I think the other part of our partner network that we haven’t talked a lot about is just the marketplace 
which is just a whole other dimension, both across small and large opportunities where our ecosystem 
continues to flourish to build additional capability that those small and large companies need across the 
dimensions that we serve.
Bhavan Suri:
Jay, thanks. That was really helpful color. I guess one quick one from me just to follow-up on that. When 
you look at the Platinum Partners and you look at your investment in partner go-to-market education, 
finding new partners, all the rest of that, you know you’re not aggressively—there’s no sales motion so 
there’s not sort of, “Let me go get a customer to buy it.” I totally get that. But is there a motion to develop 
partners that enhance the Platinums? Then, do you see customer demand coming in such that you want 
some of these more complex partners, or do you think sort of the mix is pretty good right now?
Jay Simons:
We think the mix is pretty good. I mean we’re always looking for additional expertise capabilities. I think 
where there is—I’ll mention Jira Service Desk again. I think the Service Desk opportunity for the Global 
2000 is a little bit different and probably does benefit, I think, from expertise, both in terms of the product 
and the opportunity, but also by vertical. We have solution partners that focus specifically on automotive, 
and so you understand how to take that product and really configure it around that opportunity.
We also look for—we talked about this during the Analyst Day, but one aspect that partners help serve is 
a geographic one where customers in Germany benefit I think from more intimacy with folks in the market 
that speak their language, that kind of understand how their businesses are different in those particular 
markets. I think we generally—the 400 strong I think are good, but we continue to recruit and fill in where 
there’s certain gaps.
One thing to tack on at the end is when we think about verticals like automotive, another one is 
government. I think there’s a big opportunity, especially in U.S. fed, and we announced a relationship with 
Carahsoft which is primarily a reseller but we’ve got a whole ecosystem of solution partners that 
understand how specifically to deal with a government and the opportunity for our products in that 
capacity.
13
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
Bhavan Suri:
Great. That was really helpful. Thank you, guys, and congrats again.
Operator:
The next question comes from George Iwanyc with Oppenheimer. Please go ahead.
George Iwanyc:
Thank you for taking my question. Looking at Trello—and nice additions there again—what type of 
crossover are you seeing from the Trello user base into your other products at this point?
Mike Cannon-Brookes:
Hi George, it’s Mike. We’ve obviously been in credibly happy with how Trello’s user base has continued to 
grow and that the broad appeal it has to the potential billion knowledge workers out there. We’ve shared 
quite clearly that our main objective there is to have the team, the Trello team continue to do the things 
that have made them successful as a team, as a product and our primary focus is on the momentum that 
exists within Trello. We aren’t rushing into cross-selling across the base between Trello and the other 
Atlassian family and vice versa. We’re focusing on doing what makes sense for both businesses. 
Obviously at Summit we shipped a number of integrations with other Atlassian family products, so we’ve 
now got Trello and Confluence, Trello and Jira. We shipped embedded Trello inside of Bitbucket, so a 
really deep integration between those two products, and obviously things like the Stride Meeting, so audio 
and video meetings and conferencing inside a Trello board, so going the opposite direction. Those 
integrations are going to help customers flow back and forth, but there’s no explicit or active cross-selling 
activity going on at the moment. Just trying to continue the momentum that Trello has. 
George Iwanyc:
Thanks. Then just broadly on a broad product competitive basis, are you seeing any changes in the 
market, either relative to your price changes or just normal product development?
Scott Farquhar:
This is Scott here. We remain really confident about our competitive position in all the markets that we 
operate in and we haven’t really seen anything over the last quarter that changes the market dynamic in 
any way. As mentioned, the price increases, we still retain our great go-to-market model as being huge, 
immense value (inaudible) by price so that hasn’t changed anything on our market competition.
George Iwanyc:
All right. Thank you and congrats on the strong results.
Operator:
The next question comes from Jonathan Kees with Summit Redstone. Please go ahead.
Jonathan Kees:
Great. Thanks for taking my question. My questions are actually just a follow-up to some questions that 
have been asked. There’s bits and pieces of the answer provided but I guess I wanted to get a more 
14
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
complete answer if possible. In regards to the cross-selling, you talked about there’s Service Desk and 
there’s Platinum Partners who are dedicated to Service Desk. I guess I’m just curious, in terms of like 
Service Desk and other new products, ex Trello—you’ve already explained pretty well about Trello—and 
that you did also at the Analyst Day. Out of the new products, how many of them are lead into the original 
products of Jira and Confluence, or is it still mainly Jira and Confluence are leading to the new products?
Scott Farquhar:
It’s Scott here. One of the interesting things about our model is by having lots of product that are very 
popular with our customers, we don’t sort of have one main product that lands the majority of our 
customers. We go across our products that they all land new customers, and then a cross-sell motion 
both active on our part and just as customers naturally move from one product to the next. It’s not an 
easy motion to map compared to maybe other companies that land with one product and have add-ons. 
We have a diverse product portfolio, so in fact it’s incredibly resilient as a business but it’s sort of harder 
to model externally. As we add new products into that mix, we see the same properties and that’s what 
we look for with products we build and acquire is that they have the same properties of landing new 
customers and enabling us to cross-sell across the business. 
We haven’t seen any real change in that. We’ve been pleased with the Trello acquisition. We’ve been 
pleased with the momentum of Jira Service Desk both landing new customers and cross-selling our 
existing base, but I couldn’t sort of map out anything more specific on a product-by-product basis.
Jonathan Kees:
Okay. I guess the assumption then that the majority of revenues, since there’s still the original Jira and 
then after that Confluence, that’s starting to diminish as you’re getting the other products starting to take 
the lead, or as you’re saying there’s so many other products going on you don’t have the original products 
that are dominating the product lead in, the original sale lead in like you did in the past. I guess that’s a 
fair assumption then?
Scott Farquhar:
Yes. Scott here. When we went public we disclosed in our S-1 that Jira and Confluence made up a large 
percentage of revenue, and they continue to be really strong products, but obviously as we grow and we 
bring on new products we build and acquire then the percentage of Jira and Jira Software and 
Confluence decreases over time as we grow all of our products.
Jonathan Kees:
Great. That makes sense. If I can, my last question—my second question really is in regards to—this is 
for Murray. Not so much the number of customers who are purchasing Enterprise and percentage of MR, 
that you haven’t disclosed, but you have disclosed before the customer count of customers paying 
$500,000 or greater, those customers paying $50,000 and greater. I was wondering if you could share 
that for this quarter.
Murray Demo:
Hey Jonathan, we’re doing that on an annual basis, so we’ll do that at the end of our fiscal year. We’re 
not providing an update on it this quarter, but clearly we’ve made progress once again this quarter, we 
just haven’t disclosed the exact numbers and we’ll do that on our call at the end of Fiscal ’18.
Jonathan Kees:
15
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
Okay, great. Something to look forward to. Thanks a lot guys and congrats on the quarter.
Murray Demo:
Thank you.
Operator:
Again, if you have a question, please press star, then one. The next question comes from Alex Kurtz with 
KeyBanc Capital Markets. Please go ahead.
Alex Kurtz:
Thanks, guys, for taking my question. When you look at the annual guidance, just relative to the last 
couple of questions around execution, strong execution in the Enterprise space, how do you guys figure 
out how to kind of model for that over the next couple of quarters as those customers sort of grow 
revenue contribution and trying to balance that against sort of the smaller accounts and their recurring 
revenue profile?
Murray Demo:
Well, you know, really no change as to how it’s been working. We have the land and expand model so 
we’re going to be making assumptions on what we’re going to land each quarter in terms of new 
customers and what the expansion rates are, renewal rates, etc. There’s no real change in all that. We’re 
not trading off large Enterprise for small customers. Our products can scale across that entire spectrum. 
We’re going after that Fortune 500,000 which is small businesses and large enterprises. It’s just more of 
the same in terms of the model.
What you’re seeing is is on the expand side there’s customers, they’ve gone from one team to five teams 
to 10 teams, and now with the Data Center offering it allows them to expand even further where they’ve 
got—it could be tens of thousands of users, and so this patient for revenue model where it expands over 
time with larger organizations and we continue to land with new customers each quarter is a very 
powerful model, but no real change in how we’re modeling it going forward and we’re excited with the 
start of our first quarter.
Alex Kurtz:
All right, thanks.
Operator:
The next question comes from Gregg Moskowitz with Cowen & Company.
Gregg Moskowitz:
Great, thank you. Hi guys, and my apologies. I couldn’t get on earlier. Just navigating multiple calls. I had 
just one other question for Scott or Mike or Jay. You mentioned at Summit that you only have 18
Enterprise advocates and obviously the business has great momentum. You have a strong self-service 
model, but given that we’re talking about Fortune 500, Global 2000 type customers that traditionally 
expect more handholding, wondering if you could just talk about what gives you comfort that this is 
running at or near an optimized level.
Jay Simons:
16
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
Well, we’ve been practicing it for about 15 years, so that’s maybe the model continues to get better, but I 
think we have a lot of experience with it. And remember, Enterprise advocates, which really act as almost 
like a concierge service for large enterprise are one dimension of how we service and support really big 
companies. The channel is another and self-service is a third. The Data Center business, when we first 
initiated it wasn’t available on the shopping cart and part of its growth has come from allowing customers 
to take that upgrade path on their own when they’re ready. If they need additional service and care from 
us, they’ve got an Enterprise advocate and then a broader advocacy channel that can help them, and 
they also have our solution partners that can work pretty closely mapping out additional opportunity and 
helping to guide them through that upgrade path.
Even then, I think the results say a lot, that we continue to look for opportunities to improve but we’re 
pleased with our momentum so far.
Mike Cannon-Brookes:
Hey Gregg, just to add one thing which is we obviously invest more in R&D than other companies and 
one of the things is is that the products have to be very usable very early in the adoption so that that 
expansion can occur and so we put a tremendous amount of effort into usability immediately after a 
customer puts it into production. It does cost more in R&D but it allows for this model to work and for 
expansion in large enterprises as much as in smaller organizations.
Gregg Moskowitz:
Terrific. Thanks, guys.
Operator:
The last question comes from Pat Walravens with JMP Group. Please go ahead.
Patrick Walravens:
Great, thanks, and let me add my congratulations. Murray, can I ask are you still leaving us effective 
December 31st, and maybe Mike and Scott, how’s the search going for someone to replace the 
irreplaceable Murray and what characteristics are you looking for?
Murray Demo:
This is Murray, Pat. Yes, still focusing on the December 31st and we’ve still got a few months to go here 
so still chugging along. 
Scott Farquhar:
This is Scott. We’ve got a search ongoing. I’ve been really pleasantly surprised by the great candidates 
that we’ve been attracting, the quality of the people that we’re speaking with. I think it speaks (inaudible) 
of the strong reputation of the last (inaudible) and the great opportunity for the right person. We’ll keep 
you updated on our progress as we find someone.
Patrick Walravens:
Great. Can you comment on what some of the most important things are that you look for as you talk to 
all these people?
17
ViaVid has made considerable efforts to provide an accurate transcription, there may be material errors, omissions, or inaccuracies in the 
reporting of the substance of the conference call. This transcript is being made available for information purposes only. 
1-888-562-0262 1-604-929-1352 www.viavid.com
Atlassian Corporation Plc – First Quarter Fiscal Year 2018 Earnings Conference Call, October 19, 2017
Scott Farquhar:
Yes. The key one for us is finding people that have seen scale and the right culture fit for us at Atlassian, 
and so we have a great opportunity here and we’re attracting people with those attributes.
Patrick Walravens:
Okay. Thank you.
Operator:
This concludes our question and answer session. I would like to turn the conference back over to Mike 
Cannon-Brookes for any closing remarks.
Mike Cannon-Brookes:
I’d just like to say thanks everyone for joining the call today. We really appreciate your time and look 
forward to keeping you updated on our progress as we go forward.
Operator:
The conference has now concluded. Thank you for attending today’s presentation. You may now 
disconnect.